**1 Adam International Review** / edited by Miron Grindea. London: St.
Clements Press, No. 152 (Sept. 1941)-499 (1988). ISSN: 0001-8015

\

Note: The numeration continues that of the periodical of the same name
formerly published at Bucharest. After no. 153, published by Adam
International Review. A volume designation was also sometimes given,
independent of the issue number, e.g. the last issue was Vol. 49 no. 499

Index: An index for Nos.152-200 was published with no. 200

Profiled in: Stanton; Sullivan 1914-1984

Related Work: Vanessa Davies (ed.), *Miron Grindea MBE, OBE, 1909-1995,
editor of Adam International Review: a celebration*. London: Centre for
Twentieth-century Cultural Studies, King's College London, [1996?].
Includes “Cultivating one's garden : on being a literary editor”, the
inaugural Adam lecture given by Miron Grindea in King's College London
in 1985. BL: YK.1997.a.2396

\

Abs: Adam is an acronym for Arts, Drama, Architecture, Music. A very
eclectic, international general literary review, publishing articles,
artwork, music and drama. Notable for its European contributors
including Thomas Mann, Georges Duhamel, Stefan Zweig, Jean Cocteau,
André Gide, Paul Claudel, Jean-Paul Sartre, Picasso, Tzara, Chagall,
Miró, and Georges Simenon. T. S. Eliot contributed a number of essays
including “Reflections on the Unity of European Culture” and “The Aims
of Poetic Drama”. British authors included Auden, MacDiarmid, Graham
Greene and many others. King’s College London holds the Adam archives
within its College Archives and a statement about the archive is given
within the archives section of the King’s website www.kcl.ac.uk.

\

BL: 152-201; 204-207; 212-321; 328-497. (P.P.5938.bbs)

NLS: 152-157; 174-192;195-196; 199-298; 337-348; 364-366; 370-400;
404-499. (NF.1571 PER)

TCD: 152-499. (47.bb.60-62 1941-1961; PER 71-80 1962-1988)

UCL: 196, 214-230; 300-499

\

\

**2 Air Force Poetry** / edited by John Pudney and Henry Treece. London:
John Lane, 1944

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen, & Ulrich

\

BL: 11605.cc.16

\

\

**3 Alba: a Scottish miscellany in Gaelic and English** / edited by
Malcolm MacLean and T. M. Murchison. Glasgow: William MacLellan for An
Comunn Gaidhealach, No. 1 [1948]

\

Related Imprint: MacLellan was one of the key post-war publishers in
Scotland, publishing fiction, social analysis, art criticism and theory,
and poetry. The Poetry Scotland Series, published by William MacLellan,
featured collections by Hugh MacDiarmid, Sydney Goodsir Smith, George
Bruce, Adam Drinan, Ruthven Todd, and W. S. Graham (BL: W.P.1989).

\

Abs: A cultural review with the emphasis on Highlands and Islands
culture. Many contributions are in Gaelic, including those by Somhairle
MacGilleathain (Sorley Maclean), Deorsa Caimbeul Hay (George Campbell
Hay), and Ruairidh MacThomais (Derick Thomson), but there are also items
in Scots (notably Douglas Young's translation of some Campbell Hay
poems) and in English.

\

BL: X.908/298

\

\

**Albion** *See* **The New Saxon Pamphlets** B84

\

\

**4 Angus Fireside**. Arbroath: Angus Fireside, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Oct.
1948)-no. 10 (Winter 1949/50)

\

Abs: Articles, short fiction, news, reviews and poems. The texts are
almost as conservative as the title suggests and the subject matter is
Angus and Scotland in general. Contributors include Lewis Spence, the
novelist Neil M. Gunn (on the role of new magazines), Quentin Crisp (a
short story), Maurice Lindsay (on the composer F. G. Scott) and Hugh
MacDiarmid (on Angus literature). There is poetry by Maurice Lindsay,
William Montgomery, and others.

\

BL: P.P.6203.aap

NLS: 5.1538 PER

\

\

**5 Anvil: life & the arts: a miscellany** / edited by Jack Lindsay.
London: Meridian Books, Book 1 (Spring [i.e. Autumn] 1947)

\

Note: An erratum slip corrects the publication date to Autumn 1947

\

Contributors included: Joseph MacLeod on “Poet and People (with special
reference to Scotland)”, Adam Drinan (pseudonym of MacLeod), Louis
Aragon on Mallarmé, George Barker, Apollinaire translated by W. J.
Strachan, and Mulk Raj Anand on Tagore.

\

BL: W.P.8202

\

**6 Arena: a literary magazine** / edited by Jack Lindsay, John
Davenport and Randall Swingler. London: Arena Publications, [Vol. 1] no.
1 (1949)-[vol. 2. no. 9] (1952)

\

Note: Vol. 2 no. 8 and 9 bear neither the title nor numeration. Variant
subtitle: *a magazine of modern literature*

Profiled in: Stanton; Sullivan 1914-1984

\

Abs: Contributors included: Albert Camus, Paul Eluard, Eugenio Montale
and Louis Aragon, as well as Hugh MacDiarmid and Edith Sitwell. One
theme in many of the essays was Romantic poetry and literature following
on from the ideas of Romanticism. Lindsay, Davenport and Swingler edited
the first volume but Lindsay edited the second. The last two issues were
centred on conferences Lindsay had organised, “Britain’s Cultural
Heritage” and “The American Threat to British Culture” respectively.

BL: P.P.5939.cba

NLS: P.213.PER

TCD: 37.q.61-

\

\

**7 Arson: an ardent review.** London: Toni del Renzio, Part 1 [1942.]

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich

\

Abs: “Part one of a surrealist manifestation”, includes two essays on
surrealism by André Breton and Nicholas Calas respectively. There appear
to have been no more issues.

\

BL: P.P.1931.ubh

CUL: T735.B.1

\

**8 The Arts** / edited by Desmond Shawe-Taylor. London: Lund Humphries,
No. 1 [1946]-2 [1947]

\

Abs: Large format illustrated review of the arts, including poetry. No.
1 features a collaboration between the poet W. R. Rodger and the artist
Duncan Grant, “Europa and the Bull”; no. 2 a collaboration between
Kathleen Raine and Robert Medley, “The Four Elements”.

\

BL: P.P.1931.pdm

CUL: L400.B.97

NLS: 6.458

\

\

**9 Babel: a multi-lingual critical review** / edited by Peter G. Lucas,
John Fleming and G. Gordon Mosley. Cambridge: Bowes & Bowes, Vol. 1 no.
1 (Jan. 1940)-no. 3 (Summer 1940)

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich

\

Abs: An interesting attempt to publish French, Italian, Spanish and
other continental European language texts with, usually, their
translations, alongside English language work. *Babel* published essays
on various aspects of national literatures as well as poems by Luis
Cernuda, Eugenio Montale, Alfonso Gatto, David Gascoyne, and others.

\

BL: P.P.6109.bb

CUL: CAM.C.231.18

NLS: 5.999

TCD: 133.n.111, nos.5-7

\

\

**10 The Bell: a survey of Irish life** / edited by Sean O'Faolain, then
Peader O'Donnell. Dublin: Cahill and Company, vol. 1 no. 1 (Oct.
1940)-vol. 19 no. 11 (Dec. 1954)

\

Note: Imprint and subtitle vary

Index: Rudi Holzapfel, *An Index of Contributors toThe Bell* (Dublin:
Carraig Books, 1970), BL: 2713.m.4

Anthology: Geoffrey Taylor (ed.) *Irish Poems of Today, Chosen from the
First Seven Volumes of The Bell* (London: Secker & Warburg, 1944), BL:
11605.aa.31

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich; Sullivan 1914-1984; Princess Grace
Irish Library Electronic Irish Records Dataset, www.pgil-eirdata.org;
Tom Clyde, *Irish Literary Magazines: an outline and descriptive
bibliography* (Dublin: Irish Academic Press, 2003), BL: 2725.g.3414;
Gerry Smyth, *Decolonisation and Criticism: the construction of Irish
literature* (London: Pluto Press, 1998), pp.113-117, BL: YC.2001.a.4091

\

Abs: An impressive literary and cultural review which published an
eclectic range of Irish writers and provided serious comment and debate
on Irish social, political, and artistic issues. Sean O'Faolain was
editor from October 1940 to March 1946; O'Donnell from April 1946 to
December 1954. Publication was suspended between April 1948 and November
1950.

\

BL: P.P.5938.bcq. Lacking: Vol. 4 no. 2; vol. 18 no. 5, 8-11; vol. 19
no. 5-7, 9. These are however available in the microfiche set
(Mic.F.132)

CUL: Vol. 1 no. 2-vol. 18 no. 4. (L900.C.197)

NLS: HP1.91.2187

TCD: Vol.1 no.1-vol.19 no.10. Lacking: Vol.11 no.2 (Nov. 1945) and
vol.12 no.1 (Apr. 1946). (OLS L-2-50-69)

\

\

**11 Blaze**/ edited by Reginald Moore. London: [Blaze], No. 1[1940]

\

Abs: One of Reginald Moore’s numerous war-time magazines. Poems and
short stories, Jack Carney on T. S. Eliot, Paul Verlaine translated by
M. Hillyer. Production values are low, with the use of a poor-quality
stencil process. The British Library has a substantial Reginald Moore
archive within the Department of Manuscripts.

BL: Imperfect copy: Lacking pp. 27-34. Pp. 21-2 substituted with
typescript. (YA.1992.a.8746)

\

\

**12 Bless ‘Em All** / edited by Derek Stanford. [Virginia Water: No. 6
Company NCC, 1940?]

\

Abs: A magazine that appears to have been suppressed by the War Office.
Stanford soon began work as editor of *X-6*. No holdings known.

\

\

**13 The Bridge** / edited by Geoffrey Moore. Cambridge: Geoffrey Moore,
at Emmanuel College, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Apr. 1946)

\

Abs: Hamish Henderson contributes a poem, “Written at a Conference”.
There is literary criticism on Louis Aragon and T. F. Powys and a short
story by Raymond Williams. The editor cites the pre-war *Fords and
Bridges* as a model.

\

BL: P.5938.cas

CUL: CAM.C.31.63

\

\

**14 Bristol Packet: West of England writings**. Bristol: Rankin Bros.
for the Bristol Writers Association, [1944]

\

Abs: A one-off, publishing poetry, short fiction and articles. Foreword
by Reginald Moore. Contributors include: Keidrych Rhys, Jack Lindsay,
Idris Davies and others.

\

BL: 12298.bb.31

NLS: 1946.8

\

\

**15 Bugle Blast: an anthology from the Services** / edited by Jack
Aistrop and Reginald Moore. London: Allen & Unwin, No. 1 (1943)-4 (1947)

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich

\

Abs: Fiction and poetry, the latter including work by Henry Treece,
Keidrych Rhys and others. Julian Maclaren-Ross, H.E. Bates and Alun
Lewis contribute prose pieces, and there is “My First Day on Tarawa” by
Carl Jones, an eye-witness account of a U.S. attack on a Pacific island.

\

BL: W.P.889

NLS: No. 1 (R.41.f) ; no. 2 (R.41.g) ; no. 3 (R.40.i) ; no. 4
(Vts.173.b.38)

TCD: Gall.RR.21.91-

\

\

**16 Cambridge Writing** / edited by William Watson, and others.
Cambridge: The Young Writers' Group, [No. 1] (Easter Term 1948)-8 [1952]

\

Abs: Short stories, general arts articles, and poetry. Poets include
Eric Mottram, Donald Davie, an article by Donald Davie on “Recent
Cambridge Writing” (no. 4), and a review by Davie of issues of *Nine*
and *Poetry London* (no. 5).

\

BL: [1]-6. (P.P.6109.be)

CUL: CAM.C.31.70

TCD: 125.a.190, nos.1-8.

\

\

**17 Caseg Broadsheet** / [edited by Brenda Chamberlain, Alun Lewis and
John Petts]. Llanllechid: Caseg Press, No. 1 (1942)-6 (1942)

\

Study: Brenda Chamberlain, *Alun Lewis & the Making of the Caseg
Broadsheets, with a letter from Vernon Watkins and a checklist of the
Broadsheets* (London: Enitharmon Press, 1970), BL: X.981/3813.

\

Abs: No editors are stated but Brenda Chamberlain's memoir suggests that
the broadsheets were produced by Chamberlain, John Petts and Alun Lewis.
Contributors were: Alun Lewis, John Petts (illustration), Brenda
Chamberlain (illustration and poems), Taliesin (trans. H. Idris Bell),
Lynette Roberts, and Dylan Thomas. The first issue has two versions with
the same illustration but with different typefaces.

\

BL: Cup.501.k.48

CUL: 864.B.143

\

\

**18 The Catacomb** /edited by Rob Lyle and Roy Campbell. London: The
Forty-Five Press, [no. 1] (April 1949)-14 (May 1950). Then, New Series,
Vol. 1 no. 1 (Summer 1950)-vol. 2 no. 4 (Winter 1951/52)

\

Abs: A cultural review with a particular interest in poetry. Includes an
anti-MacDiarmid poem by Roy Campbell, “Ska-Hawtch Wha Hae!”, and poems
and articles displaying an enthusiasm for Lorca and Apollinaire.

\

BL: P.P.5938.cae

CUL: L533.C.23

NLS: R.211

TCD: 140.b.14, nos.1-21

\

\

**19 The Changing World** / edited by Bernard Wall and Manya Harari.
London: Harvill Press, No. 1 (Summer 1947)-7 (Feb./Mar./Apr. 1949)

\

Related Imprint: The Changing World Series, published by Harvill, was a
short-lived series of books on art, poetry, history and philosophy, BL:
W.P.2360

\

Abs: A general literary review with some coverage of European and
American literature. Contributors included: David Jones, Giuseppe
Ungaretti, Auden, Pierre-Jeane Jouve, Nicholas Moore, G. S. Fraser, Roy
Campbell, Herbert Read, Guillaume Apollinaire (in French, and trans.
Rayner Heppenstall), Ramon Gomez de la Serna, Eugenio Montale (in
Italian, and trans. Bernard Wall), D. S. Savage, Ezra Pound and Peter
Russell.

\

BL: P.P.5939.bet

CUL: Q900.C.207

NLS: 1951.43

TCD: 47.cc.30

\

\

**20 Chapbook: the magazine of Scottish achievement** / edited by Alec
Donaldson. Glasgow: Scoop Books, then A. & J. Donaldson, No. 1 (Jan.
1946)-12 [1947].

\

Related Imprint: Scoop Books had a short-lived Modern Scots Poets
series, which published collections by John Kincaid and Edward Boyd
respectively.

\

Abs: By its own admission aimed at a popular market (which,
nevertheless, did not materialise), this included articles on Scottish
culture past, present and future; reviews; Gaelic lessons for beginners;
some short fiction; correspondence and poems. Poets included Edward
Boyd, Robert McLellan, George Campbell Hay, Hamish Henderson, Alexander
Scott, Maurice Lindsay. Contemporary poems were generally published in a
section called “Scottish Heritage” which also showcased poems from
centuries earlier. Prose contributors included Naomi Mitchison, Joseph
MacLeod, Alexander Scott (on contemporary Scottish poetry), Charles
Graves (on the poetry of Marion Angus), and the artist J. D.
Fergus[s]on. Maurice Lindsay's article on the controversy over the use
of 'plastic' or synthetic Scots in poetry started what would dominate
the last few numbers: exchanges between the art critic Frederic Quinton
and Hugh MacDiarmid on the nature of modernity within Scots language
writing. Donaldson signed off with a familiar lament: “… the publisher
was confident that the co-operation CHAPBOOK could expect from the many
thousands of intelligent and progressive people in our country would
both lighten his labour and conserve, as far as possible, the limited
financial resources at his disposal. This confidence has proved to have
been misplaced.”

\

BL: P.P.6203.laa

\

\

**21 Citadel: literature, criticism, reportage, stories, poetry** /
edited by R. D. Smith. **** Cairo: The British Institute [i.e the
Anglo-Egyptian Institute], 1942-[194?]

\

Profiled in: Tolley 1940s

\

Abs: May 1942 includes “A Note on Cavafy” by George Seferis, with a
translation of Cavafy’s “Waiting for the Barbarians”, and a note on
Cavafy by someone who had known him, Timos Malanos. The Dec. 1942 issue
includes poems by Lawrence Durrell, Peter Davies, and John Penderill.
Hamish Henderson and Olivia Manning also contribute to the magazine, and
Terence Tiller’s essay “Modern English Poetry” is serialised over three
issues.

\

BL: Dec. 1942 only. (P.901/1246)

\

\

**Civvy Street** *see* **Khaki and Blue**

\

\

**22 Convoy** / edited by Robin [ie Robert] Maugham. London: Collins,
No. 1 (1944)-7 [1947]

\

Note: No. 2 was entitled *Convoy File*. No. 6 was published as
*Christmas Convoy*

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich

\

Abs: A miscellany of non-fiction prose, short stories and a small number
of poems, e.g. by Roy Fuller, Alun Lewis, Mary Ellis, Nina Kaplan, Nancy
Spain, Maurice Lindsay. Produced for those serving in the forces. Often
with charming line drawings.

\

BL: 1 (W.P.772), 2 (12354.f.22), 3-4 (W.P.772)

CUL: 1-4 (L900.D.84)

NLS: HP1.78.3135

TCD: 1-4 (118.e.81. nos. 1-4)

UCL: 1, 3

\

\

**23 The Cornish Review** / edited by Denys Val Baker. Hayle, Cornwall:
Denys Val Baker, No. 1 (Spring 1949)-10 (Summer 1952). New Series, No. 1
(1966)-16 (1970).

\

Study: Tim Scott, *Cornish Review magazine* (Hare's Ear, 1995)

\

Abs: A general cultural review focused on Cornwall, and including
photographs of sculpture and art produced in Cornwall, many of which are
associated with St. Ives. Poets included A. L. Rowse, Jack R. Clemo,
Anne Treneer, Ronald Duncan, Gladys Hunkin, Ronald Bottrall, W. S.
Graham, Allen Curnow, Charles Causley, John Heath-Stubbs, Erma Harvey
James, Norman Levine and Arthur Caddick.

\

BL: 1-10. (P.P.6049.ibb). New Series, No. 1. (ZA.9.a.11235)

CUL: 1-2, 8. New Series, No. 12, 16 (L479.C.47)

NLS: 1-2, 8. (1952.34)

TCD: 1-8. (PER 80-212)

\

\

**24 Counterpoint** / edited by Conrad Senat [i.e. Ronald Senator].
Oxford: Counterpoint Publications, Vol. 1-2 [1945?]

\

Profiled in: Ronald Senator, *Requiem Letters* (London: Marion Boyars,
1996), BL: Nov.1996/230, pp.57-63

Related Imprint: Counterpoint also published a booklet by the artist
Paul Nash, *Aerial Flowers* (1947), BL: YA.1994.b.8930, and Vera
Leslie’s translations of Kafka, *The Country Doctor* , BL YD.2005.a.2563

\

Abs: An art and literary review, which used black and white and
full-colour reproduction to publish the painters Paul Nash, Michael
Ayrton, Mervyn Peake, Lucien Freud, John Minton, Robert Colquhoun, and
others, as well as Lawrence Durrell, George Barker, Roy Campbell, Walter
de la Mare, John Heath-Stubbs, and R. S. Thomas. In Issue 2 Henry Treece
is taken to task by Geoffrey Grigson in a letter complaining about
Treece’s misrepresentation of Grigson’s pre-war magazine *New Verse*.
There were also articles on music, for example a study of Egon Wellesz
by W. H. Mellers, and a study of William Walton by Nigel Townshend.
Ronald Senator would later be better known as a composer.

\

BL: X.435/707

CUL: L999.B.1.15

TCD: Vol. 1 (1946). (24.ee.84, no.20)

\

\

**25 The Critic: a quarterly review of criticism** / edited by Wolf
Mankowitz, Clifford Collins and Raymond Williams. Mistley: The Critic
Press, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Spring 1947)-[no. 3, 1947]

\

Note: Vol. 1 no. 2 was published in London. Incorporated by *Politics
and Letters*

\

Profiled in: Tolley 1940s

\

Abs: Includes no poetry but does have articles on poetry, eg D. J.
Enright on “The Significance of *Poetry London*” (no. 1), and B. Rajan
on Georgian Poetry (no. 2). *Politics and Letters* was focused even
further outside of poetry and is out of scope for this bibliography.

\

BL: Lacking vol. 1 no. 3. (P.901/771)

CUL: Lacking vol. 1 no. 3. (L900.C.298)

NLS: Lacking vol. 1 no. 3. (6.469)

\

\

**26 The Crown and the Sickle: an anthology** / edited by J. F. Hendry
and Henry Treece. Westminster, London: P. S. King & Staples, [1945]

\

Profiled in: Tolley 1940s

\

Abs: The third and last anthology of the New Apocalypse. The contents
were: essays on war by J. F. Hendry and Terence White; stories and other
prose by Alex Comfort, F. J. Brown, Fred Marnau, Terence White, Stefan
Schimanski and Denis Van Baker; poems by Treece, Hendry, Comfort, Peter
Wells, Gervase Stewart, Leslie Phillips, Robert Herring, Robert Greacen,
Wrey Gardener, Ian Bancroft, Dorian Cooke, John Gallen, Maurice Lindsay,
and Seán Jeannett; and a conclusion by Terence White. The other
anthologies were *The New Apocalypse*, and *The White Horseman*.

\

BL: 12299.b.30

NLS: Vts.175.h.13

\

\

**27 Crux: controversial, constructive, critical** / edited by Alastair
M. Mowat. Glasgow: William McLellan, [No. 1] (May 1940)

\

Abs: “Crux is designed to gather constructive Christian thought upon the
future of Scotland, to give it the publicity it sometimes fails to get,
and to crusade for a New Spirit in every department of life - religion,
economics, social life, industry, education and art.” A general cultural
review, but with a poem by William Soutar and one by Albert Mackie.

\

BL: P.P.6203.aag

\

\

**28 Danta Ard-teistimeireachta...** / edited by Donncha A. O Croinin
and others. Baile Atha Cliath: Brun agus O Nuallain, 1946/47-1982

\

Note: In Irish

BL: Lacking 1972/73, 1975/76-1982. (P.P.5126.kac)

NLS: 1946/47-1974/74. (P.med.1992)

TCD: PR 3587

\

\

**29 Danta Mean-teistimeireachta... /** edited by Peadar O hUallachain
and others. Baile Atha Cliath: Brun agus O Nuallain, 1946/47-1982

\

Note: In Irish.

\

BL: Lacking 1972/73, 1976/77-1982 (P.P.5126.kab)

NLS: 1946/47-1974/75. (P.med.1981)

TCD: 1953/54-1971/72. (PR 3585 1946/47-1982)

\

**30 Daylight: European arts and letters yesterday, to-day, to-morrow**
/ edited by John Lehmann. London: Hogarth Press, Vol. 1 (1941)

\

Note: Subsequently combined with *Folios of New Writing* to form *New
Writing and Daylight*

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich; Tolley 1940s

\

BL: 12359.e.22

CUL: L700.C.32

NLS: Y.190

TCD: 92.p.75.

\

**31 Delphic Review. an anarchistic quarterly /** edited by Albert J.
McCarthy. Fordingbridge: **** Vol. 1 no. 1 (Winter 1949)-no. 2 (Spring
1950)

\

Related Imprint: Delphic Press

\

Abs: A general cultural review with anarchist leanings. Each issue had a
poetry section, with e.g. Kenneth Patchen, Alex Comfort, Dachine Rainer
and Eithne Wilkins.

\

BL: P.P.5938.cao

CUL: L900.C.307

NLS: 6.592

\

\

**32 Dint: anthology of modern poetry /** edited by Feyyaz Fergar and
Sadi Cherkeshi. London: Feyyaz Fergar and Sadi Cherkeshi, No. 1 [1944]-2
(Autumn 1944)

\

Abs: From the first issue: “DINT is experimental in aim. It is to
provide the poets with some more shouting area and a means of
communication amongst themselves and their readers. DINT is not intended
to be commercial.” Despite the intent the poems are generally not
experimental. Contributors include the editors and many of the widely
published poets of the 1940s. In the first issue: Henry Treece, Hardiman
Scott, Wrey Gardiner, Nicholas Moore, James Kirkup, Robert Greacen,
Edwin Allan, John Atkins, Denton Welch, Roy McFadden, Valentin
Iremonger. The second issue had a section guest-edited by Ross Nichols,
and structured round the ideas of Man Symbolic (with John Heath-Stubbs,
Hardiman Scott, and James Kirkup), Portraits (John Heath-Stubbs, Wrey
Gardiner, Morwenna Donnelly; James Kirkup), Landscape (Rolf Gardiner,
Roy McFadden, Denton Welch, Edwin Allan), and Lyrics (Morwenna Donnelly
and Iain Fletcher). The second half of the magazine returned control to
the editors and included contributions by Brian Allwood, Henry Treece,
Maurice Lindsay, L. E. Leaper, R. Crombie Saunders, John Atkins, Simon
Watson Taylor, Ross Nichols, Sylvia Read, John Christian, David Matthews
(age 8), Hermann Peschmann, and others. It also included some
translations of tiny poems by Melih Cevdet and Oktay Rifat, originally
in Turkish. Fergar contributes one poem in French, and also lists new
French books and periodicals of interest.

\

BL: W.P.6203

CUL: L727.C.124

NLS: P.sm.1382

\

\

**33 Dock Leaves** / edited by Raymond Garlick. Pembroke Dock: Dock
Leaves Press, [vol. 1. no. 1] (Christmas 1949)-vol. 8.no. 22 [Winter
1957]

\

Note: Continued as: *The Anglo-Welsh Review*

Profiled in: Sullivan 1914-1984; Sam Adams, *Roland Mathias* (Cardiff:
University of Wales Press, 1995), BL: YK1996.a.2281

Related Imprint: Dock Leaves Pamphlets published two Raymond Garlick
collections and Peter Preece’s *The Ringing Stone* (1954). BL: Pamphlet
series at: W.P.D.209

Related Work: Garlick also guest-edited a “Poetry from Wales” special
issue of the *The Poetry Book Magazine*, published in Brooklyn, New York
(Vol. 6 no. 5 (Fall 1954)), BL: P.P.5126.gda.

\

Abs: A key magazine of Welsh literature in English. Raymond Garlick was
appointed as an assistant English master by Roland Mathias to Pembroke
Dock Grammar School, and Mathias encouraged him to set up *Dock Leaves.*

\

BL: P.P.5938.bdh

CUL: L727.C.142

NLS: Lacking Vol. 1 no. 2. (NF.1549.PER)

TCD: 86.gg.45

\

\

**34 English Folios: an anthology of contemporary English prose and
verse** / edited by Patrick Dudgeon. Buenos Aires: La Asociación ex
Alumnas del Instituto Nacional del Profesorado en Lenguas Vivas "Juan R.
Fernandez", I (1947)-III (1948)

\

Abs: Each issue has a generous selection of work by the individual
writers concerned. The magazine declares itself deliberately biased
towards poetry. The contributors are: Kathleen Raine, Alex Comfort,
Peter Wells, Nicholas Moore, John Hall, Howard Sergeant, Roy Campbell,
Ruthven Todd, Douglas Nicholls, Lawrence Durrell, Margaret Crosland,
Hugo Manning, Muriel Spark, John Symonds, Hubert Nicholson, and Ross
Nichols.

\

BL: Tambi.104

\

\

**35 Envoy: a review of literature and art** / edited by John Ryan, with
Valentin Iremonger as poetry editor. Dublin: Envoy, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Dec.
1949)-vol. 5 no. 20 (July 1951)

\

Index: Richard. J. Hayes, *Sources for the History of Irish
Civilization: Articles in Irish Periodicals*, (Boston: G. K. Hall,
1970), BL: HUL941.5

Profiled in: Tom Clyde, *Irish Literary Magazines: an outline and
descriptive bibliography* (Dublin: Irish Academic Press, 2003), BL:
2725.g.3414; Gerry Smyth, *Decolonisation and Criticism: the
construction of Irish literature* (London: Pluto Press, 1998),
pp.117-119, BL: YC.2001.a.4091

Related Imprint: Envoy published Valentin Iremonger's *Reservations.
Poems*. (Dublin: Envoy, 1950), BL: 11659.bb.8.

Related Work: John Ryan, *Remembering How We Stood: Bohemian Dublin at
the mid-century* (Dublin: Gill and Macmillan, 1975), BL: X.809/40226

\

Abs: Arts articles, short fiction, poems, reproductions of paintings,
and reviews, with a significant element of modernist work and material
from overseas. Poets included John Hewitt, Roy McFadden, Patrick
Kavanagh (who contributed a regular, provocative, diary), Brendan Behan,
Blánaid Salkeld, Denis Devlin, Anthony Cronin, Ewart Milne, Maurice
Farley, Máire MacEntee, Claire McAllister, Hölderlin (trans. Michael
Hamburger), Howard Sergeant, Pearse Hutchinson, John Montague, as well
as fiction by Samuel Beckett, Gertrude Stein and even Martin Heidegger.
Other pieces include a translation of an extract from Chekhov's
“Sachalin Island” (trans. Hubert Butler), Anthony Cronin on “Guilty
Poetry”, and an essay on “The Age of Suspicion” by Nathalie Sarraute. A
lengthy farewell editorial sums up its achievements and describes the
causes for its demise which include "that semi-illiterate organ of bad
criticism, and outpost of British literary imperialism, *The Times
Literary Supplement*").

\

BL: P.P.6189.eba

CUL: L727.C.112

NLS: R.211

TCD: 125.g.161-163.

UCL

\

**36 Exe** / edited by John Hocknell and then others. Exeter: The
Literary Society in the University College of the South West of England,
No. 1 (Winter 1947)-5 (Autumn 1950).

\

Abs: An eclectic magazine of essays, short fiction and occasional poems.
Articles cover such topics as “The Medieval Undergraduate”, “The
Semantic Problem”, “Some reflections on West Indian poetry” (by Glorria
Cummins), “Some notes on Anglo-Welsh poetry” (by Gwyn Oliver Jenkins),
“Yoruba Wisdom”, “Marvell's Hero”, and “A New Zealander in the English
landscape”. The last issue was edited by Glyn Court, with Norma L.
Segeal as assistant editor.

BL: P.P.6152.clh

CUL: L985.B.37

TCD: 32.tt.66, nos.1-5

\

\

**37 Facet: arts magazine of the West** / edited by P. Britten Austin,
then Ergo Jones and Jack Knapman. Bristol: Quest Publications, Vol. 1
no. 1 (Oct. 1946)-vol. 3 no. 4 (Autumn 1949)

\

Index: Indexes for vol. 1 and 2 were advertised

\

Abs: A general arts review focussed on south west England but not
exclusively so. Poets included Charles Morgan, Alan Ross, John Waller,
John Heath-Stubbs, Quentin Crisp, Judith Buckland, Elizabeth Louch, Jack
Clemo, Ronald Duncan, John Atkins, and others. Essayists included
Quentin Crisp (on Mervyn Peake), Raoul Dufy (half-tones), John
Heath-Stubbs (on Literature in the eighteenth century), Alan Ross (on
the poet and society), and others. From vol 2 no 3 *Facet* was edited by
Jones and Knapman.

\

BL: P.P.5939.caw

CUL: L400.C.65

TCD: PER 75-893

\

\

**38 Fantasia**. Worthing: Fantasia, No. 1 [1946]-2 [1946] 

\

Note: Continued by: *Fantasma*

Anthology: *Left-Wing Verse* (Worthing: Fantasma, [1947]), BL:
11657.ff.55.

Related Imprint: Fantasia also associated with *Fantasma Miscellany,
Fantasma Parade* and *Fantasma Supplement*

\

BL: P.P.5939.bgx

\

\

**39 Fantasma**. Worthing: Fantasia, No. 3 (Mar./May 1947)-22 (Autumn/Winter 1952) 

\

Note: Continues: **** ***Fantasia***

\

Anthology: *Left-Wing Verse* (Worthing: Fantasma, [1947]), BL:
11657.ff.55.

Related Imprint: Fantasia was also associated with *Fantasma Miscellany,
Fantasma Parade* and *Fantasma Supplement*

\

**40 Focus** / edited by B. [ie Balachandra] Rajan and Andrew Pearse.
London: Dennis Dobson, [Vol.] 1 (1945)-5 (1950)

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich; Tolley 1940s

\

Abs: Essentially an annual, each issue being built around a symposium,
although also including miscellaneous poetry, fiction, and criticism.
The symposia topics were, in order of appearance, “Kafka and Rex
Warner”, “The realist novel in the Thirties”, “T. S. Eliot”, “The
novelist as thinker”, and, lastly, “Modern American Poetry”. Andrew
Pearse ceased to co-edit after the second volume. Poets included George
Barker, W. S. Graham, John Heath-Stubbs, Louis Adeane, Vernon Watkins,
George Woodcock, Kathleen Raine, Nicholas Moore, Norman Nicholson,
Kenneth Patchen, E. E. Cummings and others. The American issue includes
poems by James Laughlin, Robert Lowell, Norman Macleod, Marianne Moore,
Wallace Stevens, William Carlos Williams and others, as well as
questionnaire on American poetry answered by some American poets
themselves.

\

BL: W.P.927

CUL: L700.C.38

**41 Folios of New Writing** / edited by John Lehmann. London: Hogarth
Press, Vol. 1 (Spring 1940)-4 (Autumn 1941)

\

Note: Continues: *New Writing*; continued by: *New Writing and Daylight*

Index: Sader

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich; Stanton; Sullivan 1914-1984;
Tolley 1940s

Reprint: New York: Johnson Reprint

\

Abs: Mostly a publisher of prose, but poets include Nicholas Moore,
Stephen Spender, David Gascoyne, Goronwy Rees, C. Day Lewis, Laurie Lee,
Rex Warner, Adam Drinan, Louis MacNeice, and Allen Curnow.

\

BL: PP.5938.bbd

CUL: L727.C.23

NLS: Y.190

TCD: 33.aa.71-89

\

\

**42 Forum: Stories and Poems** / edited by Muriel Spark and Derek
Stanford. London: Forum Stories and Poems, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Summer
1949)-no. 2 [1950]

\

Interview: with Derek Stanford in Gortschacher I

\

Abs: A literary review produced in the aftermath of Spark's
controversial departure from the Poetry Society (as editor of *Poetry
Review*). Poems by John Waller, Herbert Palmer, Lorca (trans. Roy
Campbell), Iris Birtwistle, Alec Craig, Kathleen Raine, Weston McDaniel,
Wrey Gardiner, Hugo Manning, John Bayliss, and Iain Fletcher. Other
contributions include Henry Treece on the prose poem, and G. S. Fraser
on the Classical and Romantic. Muriel Spark edited the first issue;
Spark and Stanford co-edited vol. 1 no. 2.

\

BL: P.P.5938.bdk

CUL: L999.C.3.42

NLS: 1954.1

\

\

**43 La France Libre** / edited by André Labarthe. London: Hamish
Hamilton, vol. 1 no. 1 (nov. 1940)-vol. 13 no. 75. (jan. 1947)

\

Related Imprint: *La France Libre* teamed up with *Horizon* to produce
the francophile Horizon imprint, publishing a series of books which
included Aragon’s *Le Crève-Coeur* and Sartre’s *Huis Clos*.

\

Abs: A French exile cultural review. Texts are in French. Articles on
French and francophone life and culture, and occasional essays from
English authors e.g. H. G. Wells, and Aldous Huxley. Actual poems are
rare, e.g. “Timgad” by Vita Sackville-West (fév. 1941) and poems by
Kathleen Raine (nov. 1946).

\

BL: P.P.3555.ahl

CUL: Q560.C.5

NLS: NJ.712

TCD: Vol.10 no.55 (June 1945)-Vol.13 no. 74 (Jan.1947). (36.nn.52,
Nos.10-24; 36.nn.53)

\

\

**44 Free Unions - Unions Libres** / edited by Simon Watson Taylor.
London: Simon Watson Taylor in association with the Surrealist Group in
England, [1946.]

\

Abs: A large format illustrated one-off. Surrealism is the key-note
(including an errata slip confusing de Gaulle with Bonaparte and Hitler
by turns), with translations from the French and Portuguese.
Contributors include Lucien Freud, E. L. T. Mesens, Alfred Jarry, and
the Marquis de Sade in a new translation, and there are poems from
George Melly, Patrick Waldberg, Jeanne Santerre, Eduoard Helman, Serge
Ninn, Jacqueline Darras, Sadi Cherkeshi, Jean L. Davy and others.

\

BL: 12298.k.6

CUL: L999.B.1.37

\

\

**45 Gambit** / edited by G. L. J. Engle and P. A. Mulgan; then Michael
Shanks, C.A. Cooper and Mitchell Raper. Oxford: 1949-50

\

Profiled in: Tolley 1940s

\

Abs: Included work by John Bowen, Martin Seymour Smith, and Mitchell
Raper. No holdings known.

\

\

**46 Gangrel** / edited by J. B. Pick. London: [J. B. Pick], [No. 1,
1945]-no. 4 (1946)

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich; Sullivan 1914-1984

\

Abs: A cultural review with sections on general literature, poetry,
philosophy, and music. Contributors include Henry Miller, Alfred Perlès,
John Gawsworth, Kenneth Patchen, Nicholas Moore, George Orwell, Denise
Levertoff [i.e. Levertov], James Kirkup, and Neil M. Gunn.

\

BL: 2-4. (P.P.5938.cap)

CUL: L900.C.282

NLS: 1951.34

UCL

\

\

**47 The Gate: international review of literature and art in English and
German** / edited by Margaret Greig, Rudolf Jung and Howard Sergeant.
London: The Gate, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Jan./Mar. 1947)-vol. 3 no. 1 [1949]

\

Note: The first issue also bore the German title, *Das Tor*. Publisher
and place of publication vary. From Vol. 1 no. 4, published in Oxford by
Pen-in-Hand

Related Imprint: Pen-in-Hand, a general press that published a wide
variety of books

\

Abs: A general literary review with a particular interest in German,
often publishing articles and poetry in that language. Contributors
included: Stephen Spender, C. Day Lewis, Herman Hesse, Rilke (trans.
Vita Sackville-West and Vernon Watkins, and by R. F. C. Hull), Jack
Lindsay, Wrey Gardiner, J. B. Pick, George Woodcock, Michael Hamburger,
and Muriel Spark. The issue for March-May 1948 describes a circulation
of 20,000, a figure A.T. Tolley suggests, in an unpublished account of
the 1940s, was likely the result of distribution to a post-war Germany
under reconstruction. Perhaps this also implies British government
assistance.

\

BL: Vol. 1 no. 1-vol. 2 no. 3/4. (P.P.5939.r)

CUL: L700.C.50

NLS: NF.1572

TCD: Vol. 1 no. 1 (PL-140-605) Vol. 1 no. 2. (PL-140-606); Vol. 1 no. 3.
(PL-140-607); Vol. 2 no. 1. ( PL-140-608); Vol. 2 no. 2. (PL-140-609);
Vol. 2 no. 3 (PL-140-610); Vol. 3 no. 1 (PL-140-611)

\

\

**48 Gemini: a pamphlet magazine of new poetry** / edited by Frederic
Vanson. Derby: Frederic Vanson No. 1 (May 1949)-5 (Sept. 1950)

\

Related Imprint: Gemini Press, presumably belonging to Vanson himself,
published his *The Furious Finding. Fifteen* *sonnets* (1950, BL:
11658.b.39) and his *Four Holy Sonnets* (1955, BL: 11660.e.13)

\

Abs: Contributors to this typescript magazine included Muriel Spark,
Robert Greacen, Ian Hamilton Finlay, Raymond Tong and Derek Stanford.
“During the late war a number of young men were brought together by the
blind decrees of the War Office and soon discovered common interests -
among them poetry. […] In one sense GEMINI is a result of those
associations.” Vanson would also publish *The Christian Poet* in 1953.

\

BL: P.P.5126.bbl

\

\

**49 The Glass** / edited by Antony Borrow and Madge Hales. Lowestoft:
Antony Borrow, No. 1 (1948)-11 (1954)

\

Abs: Publishing mainly poetry, including prose poems. Borrow’s interest
was in literature that proceeded by “dislocating the ordinary”. The
magazine included work by Henri Michaux (trans. James Kirkup), T. E. F.
Blackburn, A. S. Thwaite (i.e. Anthony Thwaite), Bernard Bergonzi,
Christopher Middleton, Yves Bonnefoy, Derek Stanford, Henry Treece,
Oswell Blakeston, Harold Pinta (i.e. Pinter). Issues 1-7 were edited by
Borrow, 8-11 by Borrow and Hales. The last issue was devoted to
contemporary French poetry.

\

BL: P.P.5938.bde

\

\

**50 Greek Horizons** / edited by Derek Patmore. Athens: Icaros
Publishing Co., No. 1 (Sept. 1946)

\

Abs: Contributors include the artists Nikoi Engonopoulos and Osbert
Lancaster, and Rex Warner, Lawrence Durrell, I. Scott-Kilvert and the
editor.

\

BL: Cup.410.f.121

\

\

**51 Harlequin** / edited by Oliver Carson & Anthony Blond. Oxford, then
London: Harlequin, No. 1 (Winter 1949)-2 (1950)

\

Note: Continued by: *Panorama*.

\

Abs: A glossy magazine for students and in part by them. Essays by Enid
Starkie on Verlaine and Mallarmé at Oxford, and Compton Mackenzie on
Oxford literary magazines; poems by John Betjeman.

\

BL: P.P.6118.hga

CUL: No. 2. (L999.B.1.46)

NLS: No. 2. (6.631)

\

\

**52 Here and Now: a group production: poetry-prose-drawing** / [edited
by Sylvia Read]. London: Favil Press, [No. 1] (1941)-5 (1949)

\

Note: Imprint varies. Nos. 4 and 5 were published by Falcon Press.
Variant title*: Here and Now Miscellany*

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich; Tolley 1940s

\

Abs: Emerged from a pre-war “group of young people [who] met regularly
to share their common interest in poetry, drama and music. Significantly
all were under twenty-five and already felt the need for a changed world
in which the delights of a music, colour and words would form an
integral part of the lives of its people. Came the war. Our group was
dispersed by the forces of this new destruction, but, determined to beat
the cultural "black-out", we kept in touch by a type-written quarterly
passed among our members. *Here and Now* is the best of all that
appeared in that "periodical" in 1940.'”- Introduction in first issue.
Sylvia Read and Peter Albery co-edited nos. 4-5. Contributors included:
Francis King, Anne Ridler, Alex Comfort, Nicholas Moore, Henry Treece,
Eleanor Farjeon, Howard Sergeant, Patric Dickinson, and C. Day Lewis.

\

BL: 1, 2, 4, 5. (12298.eee.29)

CUL: 1, 2, 4, 5. (L727.C.83)

TCD: [No.1]-2 (1943). (PER 75-971)

\

\

**53 Here To-day** / edited by Pierre Edmunds and Roland Mathias.
Reading: No. 1 (1944)-4 (1945).

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich

Related Work: Sam Adams, *Roland Mathias* (Cardiff: University of Wales
Press, 1995), BL: YK.1996.a.2281

\

BL: [An unnumbered issue published in 1945]. (YD.2005.a.3848)

\

\

**54 Horizon: a review of literature and art** / edited by Cyril
Connolly. London: Horizon, 1940-1949. Vol. 1 no. 1 (Jan. 1940)-vol. 20
no. 120/121 (Dec. 1949/Jan. 1950)

\

Note: The issue for March 1946 appears not to have been published

Index: Sader. A separate index was published by *Horizon* for Jan.
1940-Dec. 1948. An index for Jan. 1949-Jan. 1950 was published with
no.120/121

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich; Stanton; Sullivan 1914-1984;
Tolley 1940s

Study: Ian Hamilton, “Style of Despair”, in Hamilton, *The Little
Magazines*: *a study of six editors* (London: Weidenfeld and Nicolson),
1976, BL: X.989/50900; Michael Shelden, *Friends of Promise: Cyril
Connolly and the world of Horizon* (London: Hamish Hamilton, 1989), BL:
YH.1989.b.317

Related Imprint: Horizon, a francophile imprint, was founded on
*Horizon* teaming up with *La France Libre* to ** publish translations
of Apollinaire, Sartre, Proust, Gide, Malraux, and Michaux and others.

Anthology: Cyril Connolly (ed.), *The Golden Horizon* (London:
Weidenfeld and Nicolson, 1953), BL: 12298.ff.19; Cyril Connolly (ed.),
*Ideas and Places* [a selection of editorial comments by Connolly]
(London: Weidenfeld and Nicolson, 1953), BL: 12298.ff.14

Related Work: Clive Fisher, *Cyril Connolly: a nostalgic life* (London:
Macmillan, 1995), BL: YC.1995.b.3657; Jeremy Lewis, *Cyril Connolly: a
life* (London: Jonathan Cape, 1997), BL: YK.1998.b.3622; Cyril Connolly,
*Enemies of Promise* (London: Routledge, 1938), BL: 11860.f.27; 2^nd^
ed., 1949, BL: 11868.aa.43

Reprint: New York: Johnson Reprint Corp, [undated]

Microfilm: New York: New York Public Library, [undated]; Millwood, New
York: KTO Microform, [undated]

\

Abs: A general literary review, which also published poetry.

\

BL: P.P.5939.car

CUL: Q718.C.16

NLS: Y.139

TCD: 100.u.5;100.u.1-20; CUNN 488 no.13 v.1 nos.1-6 (1940)

\

**55 Imprint** / edited by J. M. Grundy. Cambridge: [J. M Grundy, at
Caius College], Vol. 1 no. 1 (Oct. 1949)-no. 5 (Summer 1950)

\

Index: Contents of Vol.1 (i.e. all issues) are listed in issue 5.

\

Abs: The editor would later be better known as Milton Grundy, author of
*Venice Recorded: a guidebook and anthology* which, like his classic tax
law text *Grundy’s Tax Havens*, has gone through many editions.

\

BL: P.P.5938.bdi

CUL: CAM.C.31.67

NLS: 1954.22

\

\

**56 Indian Writing** / edited by Iqbal Singh, Ahmed Ali, K. S.
Shelvankar, and A. Subramaniam. London: No. 1 (Spring 1940)-5 (Summer
1942)

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich

\

Abs: A general cultural review which published short stories and very
little poetry, e.g. by Peter Blackman and Bharati Sarabhai. An extract
from Tagore's eightieth birthday speech is reprinted in no. 4 (Aug.
1941).

\

BL: P.P.5939.cas

CUL: L900.D.78

NLS: 5.1182

TCD: 31.nn.60, nos.7-11

\

\

**57 Irish Bookman** / edited by Seamus Campbell, and others. Dublin:
Seamus Campbell, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Aug. 1946)-vol. 3 no. 1 (Dec. 1948).

\

Index: Richard. J. Hayes, *Sources for the History of Irish
Civilization: Articles in Irish Periodicals*, (Boston: G. K. Hall,
1970), BL: HUL941.5

Profiled in: Tom Clyde, *Irish Literary Magazines: an outline and
descriptive bibliography* (Dublin: Irish Academic Press, 2003), BL:
2725.g.3414

\

Abs: Book notes, articles, short fiction, snippets from other journals,
quotations and occasional, rather old fashioned, poems (e.g. by Padraic
Fiacc, Celia Randall, Padraic Gregory and others). Thomas MacGreevy
contributes a short article about an Italian Mass composed in honour of
Daniel O'Connell, and Robert Greacen also contributes prose. Evelyn
Waugh is provoked in the last issue to contribute a letter on the
question of being a Catholic writer.

\

BL: PP.6158.dd

TCD: 104.r.1-

\

\

**58 Irish Harvest: a collection of stories, essays, and poems** /
edited by Robert Greacen. Dublin: New Frontiers Press, 1946.

\

BL: 12299.c.22

NLS: 1947.11

\

\

**Irish Voices** ***See*** **Ulster Voices**

\

\

**59 Irish Writing: the magazine of contemporary Irish literature** /
edited by David Marcus and Terence Smith; then S. J. White. Cork, then
Dublin: Trumpet Books, No. 1 (1946)-37 (1957)

\

Note: Some issues have *Poetry Ireland* as a supplement

Index: Richard. J. Hayes, *Sources for the History of Irish
Civilization: Articles in Irish Periodicals*, (Boston: G. K. Hall,
1970), BL: HUL941.5

Profiled in: Tom Clyde, *Irish Literary Magazines: an outline and
descriptive bibliography* (Dublin: Irish Academic Press, 2003), BL:
2725.g.3414

\

Abs: A general literary magazine focusing mainly on Ireland, but not
solely. Contributors included Samuel Beckett, Teresa Deevey, Robert
Greacen, Patrick Kavanagh, John Montague, Thomas Kinsella, and Donald
Davie. S. J. White took over editorship with no. 29 in 1954. No. 33 was
a special issue devoted to the “A representative selection of the modern
Gaelic revival presented in translation.” Revived as *New Irish Writing*
in 1968, a supplement within the Saturday edition of the newspaper
*Irish Press*, and then, after a brief absence in 1988, as a supplement
within the *Sunday Tribune*.

\

BL: 1-29, 31-34. (P.P.6158.de)

CUL: 1-34, 37. (L996.C.72)

NLS: P.sm.1591

TCD: 102.r.41-;OLS L-6-672 No.10; OLS L-7-251 No.1

\

\

**60 Jabberwock: Edinburgh University review** / edited by Dick Scott
[and others, including Iain Ferguson]. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University
Liberal Club, then Edinburgh University Scottish Renaissance Society,
Vol. 1 no. 1 (Summer 1945)-vol. 6 no. 1 (1959?)

\

Note: Issues may be un-numbered. Continued by: *Sidewalk*

\

Abs: The magazine maintained a Scottish focus, with contributors such as
Hugh MacDiarmid, Compton Mackenzie, Norman MacCaig and Alan Jackson
until late in its existence. An un-numbered issue of 1959 includes work
by William Burroughs, Allen Ginsberg, Jack Kerouac, Gregory Corso, Gary
Snyder, Robert Creeley and other American writers. Its successor,
*Sidewalk*, continued and widened the internationalist interest.

\

BL: Summer 1957. (P.P.6199.bde)

NLS: NH.289

UCL: Vol. 5 no. 1 (1958)-vol. 6 no. 1 (1959?)

\

**61 Jazz Forum: quarterly review of jazz and literature** / edited by
Albert J. McCarthy. Fordingbridge, Hampshire: Delphic Press, No. 1
[1946]-5.(Autumn 1947)

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich

Related Imprint: Delphic Press published Louis Adeane, *The Night Loves
Us* (1946), BL:

YA.1992.a.19963; Raymond Tong, *Salute to Greece* (1946), CUL:
Uc.8.7991; William Everson, *Poems MCMXLII* (1946?) and Kenneth Patchen,
*Double Header* (1946?) were also advertised but may not have appeared
from Delphic.

\

Abs: Mostly articles about jazz, but with poems by Langston Hughes,
George Leite, Raymond Tong, Kenneth Patchen, Eithne Wilkins, Aimé
Césaire, W. S. Graham, Louis Adeane, and Howard Sergeant, and articles
by Patchen, George Woodcock and Nicholas Moore. William Everson
contributes a letter on Bunk Johnson's records.

\

BL: P.P.1945.sbb

\

\

**62 Khaki and Blue: the younger writers in battledress** / edited by
Peter Ratazzi. [In the field]: Peter Ratazzi, distributed by Staples and
Staples (Slough), [No. 1, 1944-no. 3, 1946]

\

Note: Editor and publisher vary. Continued by *Civvy Street*?

Anthology: Peter Ratazzi (ed) *Little Anthology: the first girl writers
in battledress* (London: Staples & Staples, [1944]), BL: 12298.d.52.

Related Imprint: Peter Ratazzi published several books using his own
name as the imprint. These included poems by Arthur Ball, *Sea Acres*
(1947), BL: 11658.aaa.153.

\

Abs: Short stories and poems. Ratazzi was wounded so did not edit no. 2,
which was edited by P. L. H. Smith and published by Pan Press, but he
was fit enough to resume control of the remaining issue. Poets included
Maurice Lindsay, Emanuel Litvinoff, Henry Treece, Derek Stanford and
Molly Francis. In no. 3 it published the manifesto of the Front Line
Generation, P.H.L. Smith, Howard Sergeant and Peter Ratazzi, whose
poetry was then released in *New Generation*. The successor to *Khaki
and Blue* appears to have been *Civvy Street*, edited by F. T. Tubes,
but it was more of a magazine devoted to giving ex-service personnel
practical help, a political voice, and to helping them keep in touch
with each other (BL: Vol. 1 no. 1 [1947], P.P.4050.clc). From the
evidence of the first issue, it did not publish poetry.

\

BL: 12299.a.28

\

\

**63 Lagan: a miscellany of Ulster writing** / edited by John Boyd.
Lisburn: The Lagan Press, No. 1 [1943]-no. 4 (1946).

\

Note: No. 4 was also referred to as Vol. 2 no. 1

Index: Richard. J. Hayes, *Sources for the History of Irish
Civilization: Articles in Irish Periodicals*, (Boston: G. K. Hall,
1970), BL: HUL941.5

Profiled in: Tom Clyde, *Irish Literary Magazines: an outline and
descriptive bibliography* (Dublin: Irish Academic Press, 2003), BL:
2725.g.3414

\

Abs: Short stories poems and other texts. Founded with a specifically
Northern Irish focus by Sam Hanna Bell, John Boyd, and Bob Davison.
Contributors include May Morton, John Hewitt, Roy McFadden, Louis
MacNeice, and Robert Greacen. John Hewitt contributes a discursive
essay, “The Bitter Gourd: Some Problems of the Ulster Writer” in no. 3.

\

BL: 3-4 (ZA.9.a.11237)

CUL: 3-4. (L900.C.290)

NLS: 3-4. (1970.257)

TCD: 3-4 (126.b.27, Nos.18-19)

\

Princess Grace Irish Library of Monaco

\

\

**64 Leaven** / edited by John Bate. Croydon: Ditchling Press, Easter 1946

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich

\

Abs: John Bate’s attempt to move on from *Oasis* after the war: “We
would not have men listen to our voice, but to still themselves within,
so that they may hear the Voice that has never been silent, or, if you
like, the Silence that has never been voiced.” (from the Editorial).
Includes poems by Bate, Norman Nicholson, an anonymous pantomime (“The
Walter-Kelpie Princess”), D. S. Savage on “Socialism and the Problem of
Evil”, and Sid Chaplin’s “North-Countryman’s Journal”.

\

BL: YD.2004.a.902

NLS: HP.1.79.1191

UCL

\

\

**65 Leeds University Poetry** / edited by Robin Skelton, then W. A.
Hodges and others. Leeds: Lotus Press, 1949-1950, 1954-1956.

\

Anthology: A. R. Mortimer and James Simmons (eds.), *Out on the Edge*
(Leeds: Dept. of English Literature [Leeds University], 1958), BL:
YA.1995.a.22540. Includes work by Tony Harrison. See also Debjani
Chatterjee and Barry Tebb (eds.), *Sixties Press Anthology of Gregory
Fellows’Poetry* (Sutton: Sixties Press, 2005)

\

Abs: Contributors included James Kirkup and Robin Skelton. Bonamy Dobrée
contributed a preface to the 1949 and 1950 volumes. The 1956 issue
contains poems by Thomas Blackburn, James Simmons, John Heath-Stubbs,
Geoffrey Hill and others.

\

BL: 1949-1950; 1956 (P.P.5126.bbs)

CUL: L727.D.103

\

\

**66 Life Line** / [Staff of R.A.F. Coastal Command], dates unknown

\

Abs: A poster magazine, noted by A. T. Tolley in an unpublished account
of magazines in the 1940s. No holdings known.

\

\

**67 London Forum: a quarterly review of literature, art and current
affairs** / edited by Peter Baker and Roland Gant. London: Falcon Press,
Vol. 1 no. 1 (Winter 1946)-no. 4 (Christmas1947)

\

Abs: Almost no poetry itself though e.g. one poem by Wrey Gardiner, but
includes articles on poetry and the arts, e.g. by John Heath-Stubbs,
Kathleen Nott (on verse drama), Jack Lindsay, and Henry Miller (on
Kenneth Patchen).

\

BL: Vol. 1 no. 1-no. 2. (P.P.5938.caa)

CUL: L.900.C.266

NLS: 1950.48

TCD: PER 91- 84

\

\

**68 Lyra: an anthology of new lyric** / edited by Alex Comfort and
Robert Greacen. Billericay: Grey Walls Press, 1942

\

Profiled in: Tolley 1940s

Related Imprint: Wrey Gardiner's Grey Walls Press published numerous
poetry collections and other books in the 1940s and 50s

\

Abs: Describing itself as a publication of “new romanticism”, this
anthology included work by Henry Treece, Nicholas Moore, G. S. Fraser,
Norman Nicholson, Anne Ridler, Francis Scarfe, Vernon Watkins, Alex
Comfort, Emanuel Litvinoff, John Bayliss, Tambimuttu and Wrey Gardiner.
Grey Walls’ *New Road* is loosely a continuation of *Lyra*.

\

BL: 11605.b.15

NLS: T.31.e.

\

\

**69 Mandrake** / edited by John Wain, then Arthur Boyars and Audrey M.
Arnold, then Arthur Boyars and John Wain, then Arthur Boyars. Oxford:
Arthur Boyars Vol. 1 no. 1 (May 1945)-vol. 2 no. 11 (Winter 1956)

\

Profiled in: Sullivan 1914-1984

\

Abs: Started by John Wain when he was an undergraduate at St. John’s
College Oxford, this was a general arts review, with poetry, short
fiction and arts essays. Contributors included: John Atkins, Audrey
Beecham, William Bell, Alexander Blok, Philip Larkin, C. M. Bowra, Georg
Buchner, Roy Campbell, Neville Coghill, Patric Dickinson, Geoffrey
Dutton, David Gascoyne, Michael Hamburger, John Heath-Stubbs, J. B.
Leishman, C. Day Lewis, Lorca, Boris Pasternak, Pierre Reverdy and
others. Notable for its early publication of Larkin in no. 3.

\

BL: P.P.5939.cat

CUL: Vol. 1 no. 4-vol. 2 no. 11. (L727.C.417)

NLS: NH.290

\

**70 Manuscript** / edited by C. P. Billot, A. D. Walters, Peter Dunn,
and others. Southampton: Vol. 1 no. 1 (June 1941)-no. 3 (Nov./Dec. 1941)

\

Abs: A general literary review. There was a deliberate attempt to
publish younger writers but most are still unknown today. Poets included
Idris Parry and Wrey Gardiner, and there was a short story by A. H.
Teece.

\

BL: P.P.5938.bbr

CUL: L999.C.3.75

\

\

**71 Message: Belgian review** / edited by Paul Weyember. London:
Message, no. 1 (nov. 1941)-55 (juin 1946)

\

Abs: A Belgian exile cultural review. Among the obviously more pressing
articles on the war, and proposals for life after the war, there are
articles on Belgian culture and occasional essays from non-Belgians,
e.g. Michael Roberts on “Poetry and war” (April 1942) and Herbert Read
on “The freedom of the artist” (Dec. 1942). Actual poems are rare.

\

BL: P.P.4480.i

NLS: Y.180

TCD: 130.p.41-47

\

\

**72 Mid-Day** / [edited by Antoinette Pratt Barlow]. Oxford: Mid-day
Publications, No. 1 (Winter 1946-7)

\

Abs: Short stories, miscellaneous arts articles, and poems by Hugh
Popham and Stevie Smith.

\

BL: P.P.6004.gre

CUL: L999.C.3.49

NLS: 6.2131

\

\

**73 Middle East Anthology** / edited by John Waller and Erik de Mauny.
London: Lindsay Drummond, 1946

\

BL: 12299.c.18

NLS: Vts.175.g.21

\

\

**74 Million: new left writing** / edited by John Singer. Glasgow:
William Maclellan, No. 1 [1943]-3 [1946]

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich

Related Imprint: MacLellan was one of the key post-war publishers in
Scotland, publishing fiction, social analysis, art criticism and theory,
and poetry. The Poetry Scotland Series, published by William MacLellan,
featured collections by Hugh MacDiarmid, Sidney Goodsir Smith, George
Bruce, Adam Drinan, Ruthven Todd, and W. S. Graham. BL: W.P.1989

\

Abs: Short stories, literary criticism, and poems, the latter from:
Langston Hughes, Joe Corrie, Maurice Lindsay, Sydney Tremayne, Hugh
MacDiarmid, Sydney Goodsir Smith, Brecht (trans. Honor Arundel), John
Singer himself, Sid Chaplin, Jack Lindsay, Honor Arundel, Nicholas
Moore, Patricia Ledward, and others. John Singer also contributes an
article on “Literature and the War” (no. 1).

\

BL: W.P.7447

CUL: L900.C.276

NLS: 1951.12

\

\

**75 The Mint. A miscellany of literature, art and criticism** / edited
by Geoffrey Grigson. London: Routledge, [No. 1] (1946)-2 (1948)

\

Profiled in: Sullivan 1914-1984

\

Abs: A general cultural review, which also published poetry.

\

BL: W.P.1353

CUL: L727.C.72

NLS: No. 1. (Vts.175.f.52); no. 2. (1968.119)

\

\

**76 Modern Reading** / edited by Reginald Moore. London: Staples &
Staples [and subsequently other publishers], no. 1 [1941]-23 (1953)

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich

Related Imprint: Modern Reading Library

\

Abs: The focus was on short fiction, but *Modern Reading* did publish
just a few poems, e.g. by Idris Davies and Frederic Prokosch.

\

BL: X.989/709 and W.P.5180/22.

CUL: Lacking no. 2 and no. 23. (L996.D.12)

NLS: Lacking no. 2, 16, 18-19, 21, and 23. (P.med.2271)

TCD: 21-22. (PAM K.34 no.22-23)

\

\

**The New Alliance & Scots Review** ***See*** **The New Alliance** A134

\

\

**77 The New Apocalypse: an anthology of criticism, poems and stories**
/ [Edited by J. F.

Hendry.]. London: Fortune Press, [1940].

\

Profiled in: Tolley 1940s

\

Abs: The anthology that, building on 1930s magazines such as *Seven* and
*Kingdom Come*, gave the name to the “New Apocalypse” poets. The contri
butors were Dorian Cooke, J. F. Hendry, Norman MacCaig, Robert Melville,
Nicholas Moore, Philip O’Connor, Dylan Thomas and Henry Treece. There
was a frontispiece by Pablo Picasso. Further anthologies were *The White
Horseman* and *The Crown and the Sickle.*

\

BL: 12299.b.11

NLS: T.239.b

\

\

**78 The New Athenian Broadsheet** / edited by Winifred Binning.
Edinburgh: New Athenian Broadsheets, No. 1 (Aug. 1947)-16 (Christmas
1951).

\

Note: No. 2 (Christmas 1947) was reprinted for Christmas 1950, but bears
the same number.

\

Abs: Publishing solely poetry, occasionally reprinted from earlier
collections or magazines, this began with the Edinburgh Festival in
1947. The emphasis was on Scottish poetry, but not exclusively so.
Contributors included: Lewis Spence, Hugh MacDiarmid, Sydney Goodsir
Smith, George Campbell Hay, Naomi Mitchison, Maurice Lindsay, Marion
Angus, Helen B. Cruickshank and others. The rather Victorian A. V.
Stuart was particularly well represented. The editor was not always
indicated, but Winfred Binning appears to have edited nos. 1-13 and 15.
R. Ogilvie Crombie was designated the Interim Editor, and edited nos. 14
and 16.

\

BL: P.P.5126.gbu. (No. 2 is supplied in reprint only, P.P.5126.gbu.(2))

CUL: L727.C.121

NLS: 5.1716

TCD: 69.n.111, nos.3-20

\

\

**79 New Generation** / edited by Peter Ratazzi. London: No. 1
(Spring/Summer 1946)-2 (Winter 1947)

\

Abs: Apparently intended as the magazine of the Front Line Generation,
P.H.L. Smith, Howard Sergeant and Peter Ratazzi, whose manifesto was
published in the third issue of Ratazzi’s magazine *Khaki and Blue.*
Also includes a poem by Dannie Abse.

\

BL: P.P.5938.cad

\

\

**80 The New Meridian Magazine** / edited by Robert Muller, David Hack
and Harry Klopper. London: Alan Neame Publications, Vol. 1 no. 1
(Jan/Feb. 1947)-no. 3 (June/July 1947)

\

Related Imprint: Meridian Books issued at least two poetry collections
in its Garrick Poets series, one by Randall Swingler, *The Years of
Anger* (1946), BL: W.P. 1744/1, and Maurice Carpenter, *The Tall
Interpreter* (1946), BL: W.P.1744/2

\

Abs: A general cultural review, with considerable interest in foreign
affairs and countries overseas. Each issue had a “World Poetry” section
where untranslated poems from other countries were presented. Poets
included Erich Kästner, Paul Eluard, Jules Supervielle, Ernst Wiechert
and Andre de Rache, as well as, e.g. Patric Dickinson. Jack Lindsay was
brought in to co-edit with Muller, Hack and Klopper for the second
issue; the third and last issue was edited by Klopper and Muller alone.

\

BL: P.P.5939.cax

CUL: L999.B.1.22

NLS: 5.1278 PER

\

\

**81 New Poetry** / edited by Nicholas Moore. London: Fortune Press, No.
1 [1946]-2 [1946]

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich; Stanton; Sullivan 1914-1984

\

Abs: Contributors included Lawrence Durrell, G. S. Fraser, Nicholas
Moore, Ruthven Todd, Wallace Stevens, Conrad Aiken, W. S. Graham,
Elizabeth Bishop, Allen Tate, Christopher Middleton and Hamish
Henderson.

\

BL: W.P.1743

CUL: No. 1. (L999.C.3.77)

\

\

**82 New Road: new directions in European art and letters** / edited by
Alex Comfort and John Bayliss, then Fred Marnau, then Wrey Gardiner.
Billericay: Grey Walls Press, [No. 1] (1943)-5 (1949)

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich; Sullivan 1914-1984

Related Imprint: Wrey Gardiner's Grey Walls Press published numerous
poetry collections and other books in the 1940s and 50s

Reprint: Nendeln, Liechtenstein: Kraus Reprint, 1969

\

Abs: A substantial general cultural review with a particular interest in
continental literature, published in translation. Contributors included:
David Gascoyne, J. F. Hendry, Nicholas Moore, Anne Ridler, André Breton,
Aimé Césaire, Lawrence Durrell, Norman McCaig, John Singer, Dylan
Thomas, Ruthven Todd, Vernon Watkins, Robert Greacen, Delmore Schwartz,
Elizabeth Bishop, Carlos Drummond de Andrade, Hugh MacDiarmid, Hamish
Henderson, Georg Trakl, Paul Eluard, Henri Michaux and Jean Cocteau.
Articles included those by: Kathleen Raine, James Kirkup, George Orwell,
Derek Stanford, Comfort and Bayliss edited from 1943-44, Fred Marnau
from 1944-46 and Wrey Gardiner the last issue (1949).

\

BL: X.989/38704

CUL: L727.C.60

NLS: T.32.c.

\

\

**83 The New Savoy** / edited by Mara Meulen and Francis Wyndham.
London: New Savoy Press, 1946.

\

Abs: Short stories, articles, poems and other texts. Contributors
include: Betty Miller, Olivia Manning, George Orwell, Inez Holden,
Stevie Smith, J. F. Hendry, Elizabeth Berridge, Hesketh Pearson, Isobel
Strachey and Arthur Koestler.

\

BL: YA.1992.a.8747

CUL: L900.D.66

\

\

**84 The New Saxon Pamphlets** / edited by John Atkins. Prettyman Lane,
Kent: John Atkins, No. 1 [1944]-3 [1945]. Then as *The New Saxon
Review*, 4 [1945]-5 [1946]. Then as *Albion*, 6 [1947]-7 [1947].

\

Note: Place of publication varies. No. 6 is numbered Vol. IV no. 6

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich; Stanton

\

Abs: A magazine produced in reaction to the New Apocalypse poets, and to
the assumption that poetry is essentially a Celtic form. John Atkins’s
first editorial spells out the policy: “the point of the new saxon is
this: he won’t subscribe to the view that to write good poetry you must
be a celt.” The emphasis is on prose, but each issue does carry some
poetry, eg by Patric Dickinson (verse drama), Stevie Smith, and John
Singer. George Orwell contributes an article on "Poetry and the
Microphone" in no. 3, and no. 4 carried work by the poet Brian Allwood,
killed in action in Italy in 1944.

\

BL: W.P.967

CUL: L727.C.95

NLS: 1957.7

\

\

**The New Saxon Review** *See* **The New Saxon Pamphlets** B84

\

\

**85 The New Scot** / edited by Norrie Fraser and A. I. Milton, then R.
G. MacMillan and Norrie Fraser. Glasgow: Golden Eagle Press for the
Scottish Reconstruction Committee, [Vol. 1 no. 1, 1945]-[vol. 5 no. 1,
Jan. 1949?]

\

Abs: A general cultural magazine focussed on Scotland. Occasional poems
and short fiction. Contributors included Maurice Lindsay, Naomi
Mitchison, William Soutar, Douglas Young, T. S. Law, and Hugh MacDiarmid
(e.g. an article, "What's wrong with the 'Songs of the Hebrides'" and,
with Douglas Young, a defence of the synthetic nature of the Scots
language in poetry). Vol. 2 no. 1 included an open letter by Lindsay to
Mitchison, defending the editorial policy of *Poetry Scotland*.

\

BL: Vol. 2 no. 1 (Jan. 1946)-vol. 5 no. 1 (Jan. 1949) (P.P.6223.bc)

\

\

**86 The New Shetlander**. Lerwick: The New Shetlander, No. 1 (Mar.
1947)- . ISSN: 0047-987X

\

Abs: A cultural review with a focus on Shetland. However, many of the
contributors are from further afield. For example, in the first few
years contributors included Orcadian poet George Mackay Brown (poetry,
plays, articles, fiction), Hugh MacDiarmid (poetry, and an essay on 25
years of the modern Scottish Renaissance), Naomi Mitchison, Maurice
Lindsay, T. S. Law, John J. Graham, J. T. Hughson (both poets writing in
a Shetland dialect). Many of the local poems in the early issues are
signed only by a pseudonym. *The New Shetlander* continues to publish
new poetry to this day.

\

BL: P.P.6203.oa

CUL: 2- .(L486.B.24)

NLS: 1. (6.2395). 2- . (QJ9.797 PER). Lacking: No. 9 (1948); 15 (1949);
45 (1957); 178 (1991).

TCD: 2-43. (PER 81-333)

\

\

**87 New Writing and Daylight** / edited by John Lehmann. London:
Hogarth Press, Vol. 1 (Summer 1942)-vol. 7 (1946) 

\

Note: Continues: *Folios of New Writing* and *Daylight*; continued by:
*Orpheus*

Index: Sader

Anthology: John Lehmann (ed.), *Poems from New Writing* (London:
Lehmann, 1946), BL: 11606.b.13; John Lehmann (ed.) *Pleasures of New
Writing: an anthology of poems, stories and other prose pieces from the
pages of New Writing* (London: Lehmann, 1952), BL: 12299.ee.27

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich; Stanton; Sullivan 1914-1984;
Tolley 1940s

\

BL: P.P.5938.bbd

CUL: L727.C.23

NLS: Y.190

TCD: 33.aa.71-89

\

\

**88 Nine** / edited by Peter Russell and others. London: Peter Russell,
Vol. 1 no. 1 (Autumn 1949)-vol. 4 no. 2 (Apr. 1956)

\

Index: UK Little Magazines Project

Profiled in: Stanton; Sullivan 1914-1984; Tolley 1940s; UK Little
Magazines Project

Interview: with Peter Russell, in Görtschacher 2

Related Work: James Hogg (ed.), *The Road to Parnassus: homage to Peter
Russell on his seventy-fifth birthday* (Salzburg: University of
Salzburg, 1996), pp.269-80, BL: X.0909/611 (101) includes Wolfgang
Görtschacher’s essay '"Continuing the Dances of the Ages": Peter
Russell's Literary Magazine *Nine*', pp.269-80.

\

Abs: A literary review, with the emphasis on poetry and a particular
emphasis on Poundian modernism and classical traditions of verse.
Russell had a number of co-editors: G. S Fraser and Iain Fletcher from
Autumn 1949 to Spring 1950; Fletcher, Ian Scott-Kilvert and D. S.
Carne-Ross from August 1950 to Autumn 1951. Russell edited alone from
April 1952 to April 1956.

\

BL: PP.5126.bbk

CUL: P727.C.16

NLS: NF.1561

TCD: 133.a.38-39

\

\

**89 The Norseman: an independent literary and political review** /
edited by Jac. S. Worm-Müller, then H. L. Lehmkuhl. London: Lindsay
Drummond Ltd, then the Norseman, vol. 1-no. (Jan. 1943)-vol. 16 no. 6
(Nov./Dec. 1946)

\

Index: An index to vols. 1-16 was published in Oslo in 1960, BL:
P.P.4811.n.(1)

\

Abs: A Norwegian exile cultural review. Articles on Norwegian (and
Scandinavian) culture, short fiction and occasional poems. Occasional
pieces by British authors, e.g. Derek Stanford on John Masefield,
Neville Braybrooke on T. S. Eliot, Gilbert Murray, Herbert Read, and a
short story by Muriel Spark. In vol. 1 no. 6 (Nov. 1943) Eliot
contributes an article on “The Social Function of Poetry” and a chorus
from *Murder in the Cathedral*. Texts are in English. There are short
valedictory accounts of the magazine in the last issue.

\

BL: P.P.4811.n

CUL: P593.C.11

NLS: NH.672

\

\

**90 Northern Review: the magazine of the North** / edited by W. B. de
Bear Nicol and Kenneth Severs. Pontefract: Vol. 1 no. 1 (June 1946)-vol.
2 no. 3 (Jan./Feb/Mar. 1948). New Series, No. 1 (May 1948)-no. 9 (Summer
1950)

\

Note: Absorbed by *The Dalesman*.

\

Abs. A general cultural review with a northern England focus. Publishes
three or four poems each issue. Contributors include Vernon Scannell,
Wilfred Childe, Howard Sergeant, and James Kirkup have poems. W. B. de
Bear Nicol edited the magazine on his own from vol. 1 no. 7 onwards,
when he also began to refer to himself as Bernard de Bear Nicol.

\

BL: P.P.5939.bga

CUL: L900.C.274

NLS: New series only. (5.1411)

\

\

**91 Now** / edited by George Woodcock. Maidenhead: M. C. Pitts, No. 1
(Easter 1940)-7 (Fall 1941). Then, New Series, No. 1 (1943)-9 (July/Aug.
1947)

\

Note: Place of publication and imprint varies

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich; Stanton; Sullivan 1914-1984;
Tolley 1940s

Reprint: Nendeln, Liechtenstein: Kraus Reprint, 1968.

\

Abs: Started by Woodcock when he was a conscientious objector, working
as an agricultural worker. The earlier issues included other
conscientious objectors, such as D. S. Savage and Julian Symons, and was
largely a political magazine. The new series had higher profile
contributors such as George Orwell on “How the Poor Die”, Herbert Read
on “The Cult of Leadership”, and Alex Comfort on on “Art and Social
Responsibility”, while poets included W. S. Graham and George Barker.
Towards the end of its run, there were more American contributions, e.g.
by Kenneth Rexroth and William Everson.

\

BL: P.P.6033.gda

CUL: 3-7. New Series, 1-9. (L.900.C.304)

NLS: 1-7. New Series, 1-7. (1948.29)

TCD: New Series, 1-7. (110.s.1)

\

\

**92 Now-a-days: book reviews, theatre, music, poetry, art** / edited by
Cyril Stone. Brighton: Crabtree Press, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Spring 1947)-no. 5
(Spring 1948)

\

Abs: A general cultural review, which published very little poetry.
“Poetry” was dropped from its masthead in the last issue.

\

BL: P.P.5938.bdd

CUL: L400.C.54

NLS: 6.395

\

\

**93 Oasis** / edited by John Bate. Sonning: John Bate, March
1942-[Summer 1944?]

\

Note: Unnumbered. Subsequently published at Oxford, Lettcombe Bassett,
and Croydon. Continues: *X6*; continued, in spirit at least, by:
*Leaven*

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich

\

Abs: A miscellany of short fiction and poetry, and some reviews. Poets
included John Bayliss, Baudelaire translated by Edith Davis, Wrey
Gardiner, and Boris Pasternak translated by J. M. Cohen. Conan Nicholas
joined Bate as co-editor for the Summer 1944 issue. Derek Stanford
contributed reviews. Not to be confused with *Oasis: the Middle East
anthology of poetry from the Forces* (Cairo: Salamander, 1943), BL:
Cup.410.d.86.

\

BL: Mar. 1942, Apr. 1942, June 1942, July 1942, Aug. 1942, Sept. 1942,
Oct. 1942, [Nov. 1942], [1943], Spring 1944, and Summer 1944.
(YA.1989.b.2)

NLS: Summer 1944 only. (1948.42)

\

\

**94 Opus** / edited by Denis Val Baker. London: [Denis Val Baker] no. 8
(Autumn 1941)-14 (Spring 1943)

\

Note: From no. 10 (Spring 1942) published at Tring

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich; Stanton

Anthology: Robert Atthil et al., *Preludes: an anthology of war-time
poetry* [1943], BL: YA.2003.a.35462.

Related Imprint: Opus Press published Nicholas Moore’s short but early
study, *Henry Miller* (1943), BL: 11869.dd.21. From 1943 Baker published
*Voices* from his Opus Press

Abs: A general cultural review, which also published poetry. It began
with no. 8, probably to avoid looking like a new little magazine, since
war restrictions designed to limit paper consumption forbade new
magazines starting up. Baker contributes a short survey of the
“Britain's culture press in wartime” in no. 8. Most of the poets are now
little known, though it did publish Nicholas Moore, Maurice Lindsay,
Wrey Gardiner, and Henry Treece.

\

BL: P.P.5938.caq

NLS: 11 (Summer 1942)-14. (5.1104)

\

\

**95 Orientations** / edited by G. S. Fraser, then D. J. S. Thomson,
then J. M. MacKechnie, then Raymond Nunn. Cairo: Victory Club, [Spring?
1942]-No. 29? 1945

\

Profiled in: Tolley 1940s

\

Abs: Founded by a group originally working at the Headquarters of
British Troops in Egypt, specifically to give ordinary soldiers a voice.
However, most contributors were fairly experienced writers, including
John Waller, Lawrence Durrell (writing under the pseudonym Charles
Norden), Hamish Henderson, Tambimuttu and Nicholas Moore. Despite
publishing as many as twenty nine issues, copies are now extremely rare.
The editors are grateful to A. T. Tolley for information on this title.

\

Imperial War Museum

\

\

**96 Orion: a miscellany** / edited by Denys Kilham Roberts and others.
London: Nicholson and Watson, Vol. 1 ([Spring] 1945)-4 (Autumn 1947)

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich; Sullivan 1914-1984

\

Abs: The first two volumes were edited by Rosemary Lehmann, Edwin Muir,
Denys Kilham Roberts, and C. Day Lewis; Muir was no longer an editor by
vol. 3, and vol. 4 was edited by Roberts alone.

\

BL: W.P.1288

CUL: L727.C.69

\

Poetry Library: 1-3

\

\

**97 Orpheus: a symposium of the arts** / edited by John Lehmann.
London: John Lehmann, Vol. 1 (1948)-vol. 2 (1949)

\

Note: Continues: *New Writing and Daylight*

\

BL: W.P.2388

CUL: L727.C.24

NLS: T.145

TCD: 33.aa.90-91

\

\

**98 Our Time** / edited by Beatrix Lehmann, John Banting, Birkin
Haward, Ben Frankel , Randall Swingler and others. London: Newport
Publications then Fore Publications, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Feb. 1941)-[vol. 8
no. 8] (July/Aug. 1949)

\

Note: Incorporates *Poetry and the People* and *New Theatre*. Editors
and imprint vary

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich; Sullivan 1914-1984

Reprint: Nendeln, Liechtenstein: Kraus Reprint, 1976

\

Abs: A general cultural review, occasionally publishing poetry and
articles on poetry.

\

BL: P.P.5126.bo

CUL: L727.B.25

NLS: Y.149

TCD: 26.bb.222-223

\

\

**99 Outposts** / edited by Howard Sergeant, then Roland John.
Blackpool: Howard Sergeant, No. 1 (Oct. 1943)-? ISSN: : 0030-7297

\

Note: Location and imprint varies. Originally bore the subtitle: *poems,
articles and reviews.* Anna Martin was also involved editorially. From
no. 133 (Summer 1982) the title changed to *Outposts Poetry Quarterly*

Profiled in: Görtschacher 1; Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich; Stanton; Sullivan
1914-1984; Tolley 1940s; Wolfgang Görtschacher and James Hogg (eds.),
*Salute to Outposts on its* *Fiftieth Anniversary*, Salzburg: University
of Salzburg Press, 1994, BL: X.0909/611(110)

Interview: with Roland John in Görtschacher 1

Anthology: Howard Sergeant (ed.), *ForThose Who Are Alive* (London:
Fortune Press, 1946), BL: 11605.a.21

Related Imprint: Outposts Publications; Outposts Modern Poets Series;
Hippopotamus Press

Reprint: Nos. 1-75 (1944-77), Nedeln, Liechtenstein: Kraus Reprint, 1972

\

BL: 1-184. (W.P.747)

CUL: 1-184. (L727.D.66)

NLS: 1-5; 24-132. (5.3167)

TCD: 1944-1977. (PER 94-938 1944-1977)

\

Poetry Library: 14, 25-26, 28-54, 56-65, 73-184

\

\

**Oxford and Cambridge Writing** *See* **Z: Oxford and Cambridge
Writing**

\

\

**100 Parade**. Cairo: [Parade], 1940?-1948?

\

NLS: No. 18, vol.2 (Dec. 14, 1940)-Feb. 28, 1948. Includes European
Victory number for 1945. (8.40)

\

\

**101 Penguin New Writing** / edited by John Lehmann. Harmondsworth and
New York: Allen Lane, Vol. 1 (Dec. 1940)-40 (1950)

\

Profiled in: Stanton; Sullivan 1914-1984; Tolley 1940s

Anthology: John Lehmann and Roy Fuller (eds.) *The Penguin New Writing
1940-1950* (Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1985), BL: X.958/33163

Reprint: Nendeln, Liechtenstein: Kraus Reprint, 1976

\

BL: P.P.5938.bbp

CUL: L727.D.37

NLS: 5.1366-1367

TCD: No.16 (1943); 25 (1945)-40 (1950). (85.h.290-305)

\

\

**102 Personal Landscape** / edited by Lawrence Durrell, Robin Fedden,
and Bernard Spencer. Cairo: Bernard Spencer, [Vol.1], no.1 (Jan.
1942)-v.2, no.4 (1945)

\

Anthology: *Personal Landscape: an anthology of exile* (London: Editions
Poetry London, 1945), BL: 12299.e.2.

Profiled in: Tolley 1940s

Study: Roger Bowen, *Many Histories Deep: the Personal Landscape poets,
1940-1945* (Madison, N.J.: Farleigh Dickinson University Press, 1995),
BL: Durrell 156; Robin Fedden, *Personal Landscape* (London: Turret
Books, 1966), BL: Cup.510.dak.48.

Reprint: Nendeln, Liechtenstein: Kraus, 1969. BL: Durrell 90.

\

Abs: Poems include those by George Seferis, Keith Douglas, G. S. Fraser,
Ellie Papadimitriou, and the editors. Durrell sets out a manifesto in
the first issue, including “Neither poet nor public is really interested
in the poem itself but in aspects of it.”

\

BL: Durrell 89

\

\

**103 Phoenix: a literary journal** / edited by Norman Swallow, then
Nigel Storn. Lewes: Furze Press, [No. 1] Spring 1946-[2] (Autumn 1946)

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich

\

Abs: Contributors included Mervyn Peake and Edmund Blunden as well as
Arturo Barea and Ramon Gomez de la Serna. Swallow edited the first
issue, Storn the second.

\

BL: P.P.5938.ca

CUL: L999.C.3.59

NLS: 1949.19

\

\

**104 Phoenix Quarterly: a journal directed towards the recovery of
unity in religion, politics and art** / edited by Maurice Cranston.
London: Jason Press, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Autumn 1946)-vol. 1 no. 3 (1948)

\

Related Imprint: Jason Press

Abs: Essays on religion, e.g. by C. S. Lewis, a “Letter from Sweden” by
Vera Brittain, and poems by Denton Welch and Alan Rook.

\

BL: Vol. 1 no. 1 (P.P.5939.cau)

CUL: Vol. 1 no. 1-no. 2. (L900.D.81)

NLS: 5.1364

UCL: Vol. 1 no. 2 (L Housman Coll), vol 1 no. 3 (Little Magazines Coll)

\

\

**105 The Pleasure Ground: a miscellany of English writing** / edited by
Malcolm Elwin. London: Macdonald & Co, 1947

\

Abs: Subsections were: Stories and sketches, Travel, Reflection and
reminiscence, Philosophy, Historical comment, The Theatre, Literary
criticism, and Poems. Notable articles included J. C. Trewin's “The
post-war theatre: a survey”, John Atkins' “Above the neck: an approach
to contemporary poetry”, Patricia Johnson's “The younger women writers
of to-day”, Sylvia Townsend Warner's “A writer's dream”. The poems
include those by Morchard Bishop, Henry Treece, John Atkins, and Gilbert
Phelps (the latter contributes a poem about a conversation he had with
Roy Campbell and Edmund Blunden). Other contributors include Llewelyn
Powys, T. F. Powys, Henry Williamson, and J. Middleton Murry.

\

BL: 12298.bbb.24

NLS: Vts.175.h.56

\

\

**PL Pamphlets** *See* **Poetry London** (A173)

\

\

**106 Ploy** / edited by R. Crombie Saunders. Glasgow: William
MacLellan, [No. 1, 1946]-14 (June 1959)

\

Abs: Cartoons and gentle humour, including light verse by Douglas Young.

\

BL: P.P.6018.fep

\

\

**107 Poems for Christmas and the New Year**. Ilfracombe: Arthur
Stockwell, 1946/47-[1960?]

\

Note: Variant titles: *Poems Christmas*, *Poems for Christmas*

\

Abs: Annual anthologies of perhaps rather old-fashioned poetry. Edited
anonymously.

\

BL: 1946/47, 1948/49, 1950/51, 52/53, 53/54, 1957, 1958, 1960.
(P.P.5126.bbn)

TCD: 1946-1947. (PAM POEMS 18.20);1947-51.(PAM POEMS 24. 27, 39. 2, 3,
54. 27); 1954-1955. (PAM POEMS 119 no.28); 1960.(PAM Poems 152.5).

\

\

**108 Poetry and Poverty** / edited by Dannie Abse, Elwyn Jones,
Molly Owen, and Godfrey Rubens. London: Vol. 1 no. 1 [1949]-no. 7
[1954]. ISSN: 0477-0897

\

Profiled in: Tolley 1940s

Anthology: Howard Sergeant and Dannie Abse (eds.), *Mavericks: an
anthology* (London: Editions Poetry & Poverty, 1957), BL: 11604.ff.20

Reprint: Nendeln, Liechtenstein: Kraus Reprint, 1968, BL: P.901/925

\

Abs: Contributors include: Emanuel Litvinoff, John Heath Stubbs, Michael
Hamburger, Louis Adeane, Norman Kreitman, Herbert Read, Lawrence
Durrell, Kathleen Raine, Lynette Roberts, Jacques Prévert, Georg Trakl,
Charles Madge, Sydney Tremayne, Jon Silkin and Stephen Spender. The
*Mavericks* anthology, which published several of the poets from the
magazine, was designed to present “individual poets who are not
connected with ‘The Movement’, but whose work should not be overlooked
on that account.”

\

BL: Lacking no. 7. (P.P.5126.gcd)

CUL: L727.C.166

NLS: 6.697

UCL

\

Poetry Library: Reprint set; and an individual issue, no. 4

\

\

**109 Poetry Commonwealth** / edited by Lionel Monteith. London: Poetry
Commonwealth, No. 1 (Summer 1948)-8 (Spring 1951)

\

Profiled in: Sullivan 1914-1984

\

BL: P.P.5126.gbw

\

\

**110 Poetry Folios** / edited by Alex Comfort and Peter Wells, except
Summer 1951, edited by James Kirkup. Barnet, then Forest Hill, London:
The Editors, [No. 1, 1942]-10 (1946). New series: Summer 1951 only.

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich

Related Imprint: Poetry Folios published *The Song of Lazarus* by Alex
Comfort in 1945. BL: 11657.d.23

\

Abs: *Poetry Folios*'s purpose is “to present outstanding verse,
selected as far as possible without literary prejudice, to a small
interested public.” - back cover, no. 2 (Winter 1942/43). “The editors
of this Anthology have no enemies. We uphold the neutrality of poetry in
precisely the same spirit as we uphold its liberty. German writers are
welcomed by us on exactly the same terms as we welcome everyone else.
The only poets whom we exclude are the acquiescent writers of all
countries. Send us your work.' - Inside front cover of no. 8 (1945).

\

Contributors included: Henry Treece, Nicholas Moore, Kathleen Raine,
Feyyaz Fergar, John Hall, Fred Marnau, James Kirkup, Peter Wells, Ian
Serraillier, Keidrych Rhys, George Woodcock, Roy McFadden, Charles Wrey
Gardiner, Brenda Chamberlain, Anne Ridler, Joaquin Gomez Bas, Robert
Greacen, John Bayliss, Maurice Lindsay, Adolpho Perez Zelaschi, W. S.
Graham, Brian Allwood, Stephen Spender, Emanuel Litvinoff, Ruthven Todd,
Paul Potts, E. E. Cummings, Kenneth Patchen, Sylvia Read, Louis Adeane,
Judith Wright, Luis Merino Reyes, D. S. Savage, John Heath-Stubbs, Alex
Comfort, John Atkins, Antonio de Undurraga, Gerardo Diego (trans. Harold
Morland), Vincente Huidobro (trans. Morland), Luis Cernuda (trans.
Morland), Manuel Machado (trans. Morland), Kenneth Rexroth, Pierre
Seghers, Howard Sergeant, John Waller and others. The new series was
intended to consist of short single collections with illustrations, but
only the first, by Iris Orton, seems to have been published.

\

BL: [No. 2] (Winter 1942/43)-10 (1946); Summer 1951. (X.989/38700)

CUL: [No. 2]-10. (L727.D.69)

NLS: 5.1385

TCD: No.5 (Winter 1942/43), Summer, Autumn 1943; nos.7-10 (1945-46).
(131.d.33, nos.14-20)

UCL: 1-10

\

Poetry Library: 8

\

\

**111 Poetry Ireland** /edited by David Marcus. Cork: Trumpet Books, No.
1 (Apr. 1948)-19 (Oct. 1952)

\

Note: After no. 19, issued as an occasional supplement within *Irish
Writing*. A journal with the title *Poetry Ireland* was also published
from 1962-1968 and another from 1978-1980

Index: Richard. J. Hayes, *Sources for the History of Irish
Civilization: Articles in Irish Periodicals*, (Boston: G. K. Hall,
1970), BL: HUL941.5

Profiled in: Tom Clyde, *Irish Literary Magazines: an outline and
descriptive bibliography* (Dublin: Irish Academic Press, 2003), BL:
2725.g.3414

Related Imprint: Trumpet Books published e.g. R. M. Fox's *Years of
Freedom. The story of Ireland 1921-1948* (1948), BL: 9508.b.33.

Reprint: Nendeln, Liechtenstein: Kraus, 1970\
\

Abs: Contributors include: Robert Greacen, Padraic Colum, C. Day Lewis,
John Hewitt, Roy McFadden, Myles na gCopaleen, Samuel Beckett, Lord
Longford, Peter Russell, Denis Devlin, Ewart Milne and Thomas Kinsella.
An American issue (no. 7) featured E. E. Cummings, William Carlos
Williams, Kenneth Patchen, and others; no. 12 was devoted entirely to
translations of Columbanus.

\

BL: P.P.5126.ka

CUL: L727.C.118

NLS: P.53

TCD: 131.r.20 1948-1952

\

Poetry Library: Reprint set

\

\

**112 Poetry Nottingham**. Nottingham: Nottingham Poetry Society,
[1946]- . Numbers: [Vol.1, no.1] [1946?]-vol. 49 no. 1 (Spring 1995).
Then, as *Poetry Nottingham International*, Vol. 49 no. 2 (Summer 1995)-
. ISSN: 0143-3199

\

Related Imprint: The Nottingham Poetry Society published collections in
the series Poetry Nottingham Publications, e.g. Tony Lucas, *A Private
Land* (1980), BL: X.950/1380

\

BL: Vol. 29 no. 4 (Dec 1975), vol. 30 no. 2 (June 1976), vol. 4 [i.e.
31] no. 2 (April 1977), vol. 33 no. 1 (Jan 1979)-vol. 49 no. 1. Then, as
*Poetry Nottingham International*, Vol. 49 no. 2- . (P.901/3174)

CUL: Vol. 34 (1980)-vol. 49 no. 1 (1995). Then, as *Poetry Nottingham
International*, Vol. 49 no. 2- .(L727.C.793)

NLS: Vol. 34 no. 1 (Winter 1980)- . Lacking Vol. 45 (1991). (HJ4.1551
PER)

TCD: Vol.34 no. 1 (Winter 1980)-. (PER 83-214)

\

Poetry Library: Vol. 32 no. 2; vol. 34 no. 3; vol. 36 no. 1, 4; vol. 37
no. 1-vol. 38 no. 2; vol. 38 no. 4; vol. 40 no. 2, 4-vol. 43 no. 3; vol.
44 no. 1-vol. 47 no. 3; vol. 48 no. 1-4; vol. 50 no. 3- .

\

\

**113 Poetry Scotland** / edited by Maurice Lindsay. Glasgow: William
MacLellan, 1 [1943]-4 (1949)

\

Note: No. 4 was published in Edinburgh by Serif Books

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich, Tolley 1940s

Related Imprint: MacLellan was one of the key post-war publishers in
Scotland, publishing fiction, social analyis, art criticism and theory,
and poetry. The Poetry Scotland Series, published by William MacLellan,
featured collections by Hugh MacDiarmid, Sidney Goodsir Smith, George
Bruce, Adam Drinan, Ruthven Todd, and W. S. Graham. BL: W.P.1989.

\

Abs: Poems, and some reviews. Published many of the poets of the second
wave of the modern Scottish Renaissance, including Norman MacCaig, W. S.
Graham, Sorley Maclean, Derick Thomson, George Bruce, Robert Garioch, J.
F. Hendry, Sydney Goodsir Smith, Tom Scott, Adam Drinan, Alexander
Scott, Deorsa Caimbeul Hay (George Campbell Hay), and Hamish Henderson,
as well as Edwin Muir, William Soutar and Hugh MacDiarmid. The final
issue was guest edited by Hugh MacDiarmid.

\

BL: ZC.9.a.3700

CUL: L727.C.74

NLS: P.la.829

\

Poetry Library: 1-2, 4

\

\

**114 Poets Now in the Services** / edited by A. E. Lowy. London: Favil
Press: No.1 [1942]-2 [1943.

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich

\

BL: 11606.b.39

CUL: L727.D.55

NLS: 5.1207

\

\

**115 Polemic** / edited by Humphrey Slater. London: Rodney Phillips &
Co, No. 1 [1945]-8 [1947]

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich, Stanton

\

Abs: Later subtitled, “A magazine of philosophy, psychology, and
aesthetics,” it published next to no poetry - only two poems by Dylan
Thomas, which appear in no. 7 - but a number of poets wrote essays for
it, including Stefan Themerson (“Circles and Cats”, with special regard
to Ben Nicholson's paintings, in no. 4) Geoffrey Grigson (“On a present
kind of poem”, in no. 7), Stephen Spender (“Writers in the world of
necessity” in no. 1; “Thoughts in an aeroplane over Europe”, in no. 8).
George Orwell and Bertrand Russell contribute several essays as well.

\

BL: P.971/28

CUL: L180.C.39

TCD: No. 2 (1946)-8 (1947).( PER 75-850)

\

\

**116 The Portsmouth Quarterly** / edited by Gordon Jeffery. Portsmouth:
[Portsmouth Quarterly]. Vol. 1 no. 1 (Autumn 1946)-no. 3 (Summer 1947)

\

Related Imprint: The Pastoral Press (almost certainly the author
himself) published Jack Shepherd's *Fugitive Pieces* in 1947. This was
the only publication from the press.

\

Abs: A cultural review focused on the Portsmouth area. Very few poems,
but the last issue published a poem by Jack Shepherd and one by Ailsa
Aneurin. Jeffery's Book Pages were unusual in reviewing literary
magazines.

\

BL: P.P.3610.gs

\

\

**117 Prospect: the voice of the younger generation of poets** / edited
by Edward Toeman and others. Little Chalfont: The Claremont Press
[printed by Lawrence Werner, Hinckley], Vol. 1 no. 1 [1945]-Vol. 3 no. 1
(1950)

\

Note: Numbered both in terms of issues (nos. 1-13) and vols (Vol. 1 no.
1 etc). Editors and place of publication vary. Nos. 2-6 were published
in Birmingham, nos. 7-12 in Worcester. From Vol. 2 no. 9, it
incorporated *Resistance*

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich, Stanton

Anthology: Barry Keogan and James Welch (eds.), *The Heart of England.
An anthology of Midlands verse* (London: Mitre Press, [1946], BL:
11605.b.39. An advert in *Prospect* states that many of the contributors
in this anthology were from the magazine.

\

Abs: Although he was the first editor, several other co-editors joined
Edward Toeman over the course of the magazine: Barry Keogan, James
Welch, F. S. Round, Gladys Keighley, Harold F. Bradley, David West.
Contributors included John Atkins, Cyril Hughes, Howard Sergeant,
Raymond Tong, Wolf Mankowitz, Nicholas Moore, James Kirkup, John
Gawsworth, Aneurin Rhys, Kathleen Raine, Norman Nicholson, Christopher
Fry, John Bayliss, George Woodcock, Muriel Spark, and Donald Davie
(“Towards a New Poetic Diction”, vol. 2 no. 11).

\

BL: Lacking Vol. 3 no. 1. (P.P.5126.br)

CUL: Vol. 1 no. 2- vol. 3 no. 1. (L727.C.145)

TCD: No.2 (1944)-12 (Christmas 1949); Vol.3 no.1(1950). (32.tt.66,
nos.21-31)

\

\

**118 Psyche**. [Birmingham]: [Hollymoor Hospital], No. 1 (May 1943)-?

\

Abs: Poems and short articles by military patients at Hollymoor
Hospital.

\

BL: No. 1. (YA.1992.b.2682)

\

\

**119 Rann: a quarterly of Ulster poetry** /edited by Barbara Hunter and
Roy McFadden. Lisburn: Lisnagarvey Press, No. 1 (Summer 1948)-20 (June
1953)

\

Note: From No. 13 published in Belfast by H. R. Carter Publications.

\

Index: Richard. J. Hayes, *Sources for the History of Irish
Civilization: Articles in Irish Periodicals*, (Boston: G. K. Hall,
1970), BL: HUL941.5

\

Profiled in: Tom Clyde, *Irish Literary Magazines: an outline and
descriptive bibliography* (Dublin: Irish Academic Press, 2003), BL:
2725.g.3414; Gerry Smyth, *Decolonisation and Criticism: the
construction of Irish literature* (London: Pluto Press, 1998),
pp.119-120, BL: YC.2001.a.4091

Related Imprint: The Lisnagarvey Press published several books,
including the collections: Jack McQuoid, *Followers of the Plough*
(1949), BL: 11658.b.48; Roy McFadden, *Elegy for the Dead of the
Princess Victoria* (1953), BL: 11658.f.61; and May Morton, *Masque in
Maytime* (1948). H. R. Carter Publications was a less specialised and
much more prolific publisher.

\

Abs: Poems by John Hewitt, Robert Greacen, Padraic Colum, as well as
John Wain, Norman Nicholson, Maurice Lindsay, Dannie Abse, Henry Treece,
Idris Bell, Vernon Watkins, and R. S. Thomas. No. 19 was a Welsh number.
No. 12 features an essay by Daphne Fullwood and Oliver Edwards on
“Ulster poetry since 1900”; an essay by John Hewitt on “The Course of
Writing in Ulster”; and bibliographic and biographical information
concerning Ulster writers, 1900-1953.

\

BL: P.P.5126.kaa

CUL: L727.C.129

NLS: 1954.24

TCD: 136.b.126

\

\

**120 Resistance: a social-literary magazine** / edited by Derek
Stanford and David West. London: Derek Stanford and David West, No. 1
(Oct. 1946)

\

Interview: with Derek Stanford in Görtschacher I

\

Abs: Prose by C. S. Lewis, Derek Stanford and even Charles Baudelaire.
Poems by Apollinaire (trans. Margaret Howorth), John Bayliss, Wrey
Gardiner, Howard Sergeant, and Nicholas Moore.

\

BL: P.P.5938.car

\

\

**121 Resurgam Younger Poets**. London: Favil Press, No.1 [1940]-10
[1944]

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich

Related Imprint: Favil Press, established in the 1920s, published many
collections of poetry over the decades, but appears to have ceased in
the 1980s. Resurgam seems to have been a Favil Press imprint, which also
included Resurgam Library, BL: 012213.bb.4.

\

Abs: More a series of small poetry collections than a magazine, each
publication was taken up by one poet only, including John Atkins,
Patricia Ledward, Alex Comfort, and Emanuel Litvinoff.

\

BL: 11613.d.3

\

\

**122 Review 43** [Review 45, Review 46] / edited by Walter Berger and
Pavel Tigrid, and then Walter Berger and E. Osers. London: Allen &
Unwin, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Spring 1943)-vol. 3 no. 1 (Summer 1946)

\

Note: No *Review 44* was produced

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich

\

Abs: A literary review focusing on European literature, especially from
Czechoslovakia. There are features on Norwegian, Slovakian, Polish, and
Soviet contemporary poetry. Also includes Edwin Muir's essay “A Note on
the English Romantic Movement” (vol 1. no. 2), and T. S. Eliot's
“Cultural Diversity and European Unity” (vol. 2 no. 2). Pavel Tigrid's
last issue as co-editor was vol. 2 no. 2; E. Osers, who had been an
assistant editor previously, became a co-editor from vol. 3 no. 1.

\

BL: P.P.5939.bgp

CUL: Q900.C.206

NLS: P.210.

\

\

**123 Salamander** / edited by Keith Bullen. Cairo: [The Salamander
Society], [Folio 1] (Sept. 1942)-Folio 5 [1945?]

\

Note: Publisher varies

Profiled in: Tolley 1940s

Anthology: *Oasis: the Middle East anthology of poetry from the Forces*
(Cairo: Salamander, 1943), BL: Cup.410.d.86; Keith Bullen and John
Cromer (eds.) *Salamander: a miscellany of poetry.* (London: Allen &
Unwin, 1947), BL: 11605.a.30.

Related Imprint: Salamander published several poetry collections,
including John Waller's *Spring Legend* [1945?], BL: 11658.c.37, and
Albert Samain, trans. Keith Bullen, *Un Pastelliste Exquis:selected
poems and prose* [1945?], BL: YA.1995.a.23853

\

Abs: Poems and articles on poetry. Contributors included the editors,
John Cromer, Raoul Parme (who contributed his own poems, and translated
English language verse into French), G. S. Fraser, John Gawsworth,
Hamish Henderson, Ahmed Rassim, and others.

\

BL: RF.1999.a.26

\

\

**The Scots Review** ***See*** **The New Alliance** A134 ****

\

\

**124 Scots Writing** / edited by P. McCrory and Alec Donaldson.
Glasgow: Scoop Books, No. 1 [1943]-4 [1947?]

\

Related Imprint: Scoop Books had a short-lived Modern Scots Poets
series, which published collections by John Kincaid and Edward Boyd
respectively.

\

Abs: Mostly short stories, though there were poems by: Naomi Mitchison,
Joe Corrie, Maurice Lindsay, John Kincaid, Margaret Ross Mitchell and
others.

\

BL: 1, 3-4. (W.P.11672)

CUL: Upper Library

TCD: 1-3 (1945). (31.ff.52, nos.5-7)

\

\

**125 Scottish Art and Letters** / edited by R. Crombie Saunders.
Glasgow: William Maclellan, No. 1 (1944)-5 (1950)

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich; Tolley 1940s

Related Imprint: MacLellan was one of the key post-war publishers in
Scotland, publishing fiction, social analyis, art criticism and theory,
and poetry. The Poetry Scotland Series, published by William MacLellan,
featured collections by Hugh MacDiarmid, Sidney Goodsir Smith, George
Bruce, Adam Drinan, Ruthven Todd, and W. S. Graham. BL: W.P.1989.

\

BL: P.P.6203.le

CUL: L727.B.19

\

\

**126 The Seagull: stories, poems, general interest**. West Worthing:
Fantasma, Summer 1949.

\

Abs: “If you are on holiday at Worthing, or elsewhere, we wish you a
pleasant holiday. If you are a writer, you may find our publications
interesting; we particularly try to encourage and aid new writers.”
Short fiction, general articles, and a few poems.

\

BL: P.P.5939.bha

\

\

**127 Sheaf** / edited by B. Rajan and Wolf Mankowitz. Cambridge:
Cambridge Undergraduate Council, [1, 1943?]-Michaelmas 1943?.

\

Abs: A general arts review with essays (A. I. Doyle on John Cornford and
Rupert Brooke; B. Rajan poking fun at Bloomsbury; B. Rajan on T. S.
Eliot's “escapism”; anonymous unflattering notes on William Saroyan,
Isherwood and *Poetry London*) and poems (Lorca, Mankowitz, Phyllis
Thomas, Rajan, and Michael Barad).

\

BL: [1, 1943?]-Michaelmas 1943. (P.901/1417)

NLS: [1,1943?]. 1951.13

UCL

\

**128 Stand-by** / [Manchester: Staff of the National Fire Service,
dates unknown]

\

Abs: Noted by A. T. Tolley in an unpublished account of magazines in the
1940s. No holdings known.

\

\

**129 Stroud Anthology.** London: Stroud Poetry Society, 1948-1949

\

Abs: Edited anonymously.

\

BL: P.P.5126.bbm

\

**130 Tempest** / edited by John Leatham and Neville Braybrooke. London:
First series (1943).

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich

\

Abs: Edited by the same team who edited the literary review *The Wind
and the Rain*, *Tempest* was an attempt to encourage experimental short
prose: “It exists for the writers and readers of some sadly neglected
trends in present literature: the fantasy, the allegory, the letter and
the creative essay.” In the first and only issue the contributors were
Denys Val Baker, Anna Kavan, Alan Storey, W. S. Graham, Leslie D.
Knights, Peter S. Dickens, and Eric Nixon.

BL: 12650.aaa.120

CUL: L999.D.1.7

\

**131 This Strange Adventure** / edited by Fredoon Kabraji. London: New
India Publishing Co. Ltd., Spring 1947

\

Related Imprint: New India Publishing Co. Ltd. published a small number
of books of Indian fiction, non-fiction and poetry in the late 1940s,
including a translation of Rabindranath Tagore’s *Sesha Kavita*,
translated as *Farewell, my Friend* (14127.g.79)

\

Abs: The first and perhaps only issue comprises *An anthology of poems
in English by*

*Indians, 1828-1946*, edited with an introduction and notes by Fredoon
Kabraji.

\

BL: P.P.5126.gby

\

**132 Three** / edited by Joan Cooper and Cedric Dover. Chisledon: No. 3
Formation College, No. 1 (Mar. 1946)-4 (July 1946)

\

Abs: A general arts review with contributions by students and staff of
the college, including poems (and translations of poems). The students
appear to have been ex-service personnel.

\

BL: No. 1, 2. (Tambi.224). No. 2, 4. (P.P.6146.af)

\

\

**133 Transformation: prose, poetry, plays** / edited by Stefan
Schimanski and Henry Treece. London: Victor Gollancz, [No. 1] (1943)-4
[1947]

\

Note: Published by Lindsay Drummond in 1947

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich; Tolley 1940s

Related Imprint: Transformation Library

\

Abs: General cultural review that also published poems. Contributors
included Herbert Read, Alexander Blok, Henry Treece, J. F. Hendry, G. S.
Fraser, Anne Ridler, Boris Pasternak, Alan Ross, Michael Hamburger,
Brenda Chamberlain and Kenneth Patchen; in no. 3, Stephen Spender and
Robert Herring contribute surveys of Poetry 1919-1939 and 1939-1944
respectively; in no. 4 Oscar Williams edits an American poetry feature,
with poems by Marianne Moore, E. E. Cummings, John Berryman, Wallace
Stevens, and Delmore Schwartz.

\

BL: W.P.2869

CUL: L718.C.30

Poetry Library: [1]

\

\

**134 Translation (London)** / edited by Neville Braybrooke and
Elizabeth King. London: Phoenix Press, First Series (1945)-Second Series
(1947)

\

BL: X.989/38855

TCD: PAM POEMS 47.4

UCL

\

\

**135 Ulster Parade**. Belfast: Quota Press, No. 1 [1942]-12 [1946]

\

Index: Richard. J. Hayes, *Sources for the History of Irish
Civilization: Articles in Irish Periodicals*, (Boston: G. K. Hall,
1970), BL: HUL941.5

Profiled in: Tom Clyde, *Irish Literary Magazines: an outline and
descriptive bibliography* (Dublin: Irish Academic Press, 2003), BL:
2725.g.3414

Related Imprint: Quota Press published many collections of poetry and
playscripts in the 1920s, 30s and 40s, usually with an Ulster theme.

\

Abs: Mainly short stories, though some drama and poetry, and some
articles on literary topics. The motto was “with humour to the fore”;
some texts use Ulster dialects.

\

BL: X.989/26115

CUL: No. 2-12. (L900.D.53)

TCD: No. 2-12. (125.t.21-22)

\

\

**136 Ulster Voices** / edited by Roy McFadden and Robert Greacen.
Belfast: [Ulster Voices], No. 1 (Spring 1943)-3 (Autumn 1943). As *Irish
Voices*, No. 4 (Dec. 1943)

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Ulrich and Allen; Tom Clyde, *Irish Literary
Magazines: an outline and descriptive bibliography* (Dublin: Irish
Academic Press, 2003), BL: 2725.g.3414.

\

CUL: L999.D.1.4

TCD: 138.b.60, nos.17-19

UCL: 1-2

\

Linen Hall Library

\

**137 The Verist**. Cardiff: The Verist, [No. 1, Vol. 1, 1946?]-no. 1
vol. 2 (Spring 1947)

\

Abs: Poets included Katharine Ryan, Aneurin Rhys and Anne R. Weston. A
note from the British Museum Copyright Receipt Office suggests that No.1
Vol. 1 was not published. No editors are identified on the item, but an
advert in *Prospect* (no. 7/8) suggests that the editor was Cyril
Hughes. It also suggests that earlier Roneoed issues of *The Verist*’s
predecessor were circulated only among “The Poet Pilgrim Society”.

\

BL: No. 1 vol. 2 (Spring 1947). (P.P.5126.gbp)

\

\

**138 Verse** / edited by J. C. Murgatroyd. [Middlesex]: Author's Guild,
Vol. 1 no. 1 (1945)

\

Bodleian: Per. 2805 e.1164 (vol. 1, no. 1)

\

\

**139 Verse** / edited by Dannie Abse. London: Deacon Press, No. 1
(Winter 1947)

\

Abs: The first and apparently only issue contained work by James Kirkup,
Denise Levertov, John Singer, and John Heath-Stubbs (on Hart Crane).

\

BL: P.P.5126.bce

\

Poetry Library

\

\

**140 Verse Lover** / edited by Neville Armstrong. London: Spearman [for
Verse-Lovers’ Guild], No. 1 (Spring 1947)-3 (Autumn 1947)

\

Abs: Poems of the Verse-Lovers’ Guild, formed in 1938 but not able to
publish until after the War. The first issue has articles on Dylan
Thomas and Hugh MacDiarmid respectively.

\

BL: P.P.5126.bbh

\

**141 Vistas: a literary and philosophical review** / edited by Donald
Mullins. Taunton: Donald Mullins, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Summer 1946)-no. 2
[1949?]

\

Abs: No poems but the first issue has an essay by Laurence Housman on
“The Necessity of Doubt”, and Joseph Wicksteed on “William Blake’s
Eternal River”.

\

BL: P.P.5939.bgs

\

**142 The Voice of Youth: the Poetry Society's junior quarterly** /
edited by John Graddon, then Kennedy Williamson. London: The Poetry
Society, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Spring 1951)-vol. 7 no. 11 (Autumn 1963)

\

Note: The subtitle changed to *The Poetry Society's Quarterly for
Associate Members* with the Vol. 3 no. 4 (Winter 1955)

\

Abs: Aimed to begin with at younger readers (Enid Blyton contributed an
article and poem in the first issue), but then widened to include
Associate Members of the Society. Graddon edited until Vol. 7 no. 2,
after which Williamson was sole editor.

BL: P.P.5126.bbu

CUL: L727.C.132

NLS: NF.1548

TCD: PER 94-739

\

\

**143 Voices** / edited by Denys Val Baker. London: Opus Press, First
series (1943)-Fourth series (1945); New series no. 1 (Autumn 1946)-no. 2
(Winter 1946-47)

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich

\

Abs: A slim but general literary review. Baker had previously edited the
magazine *Opus*.

\

BL: P.P.5938.cab

NLS: No. 3 (1944)-no. 2 (1947) only. (1978.30)

\

**Wales: Wartime Broadsheet** *see* **Wales** A227

\

\

**144 The West Country Magazine** / edited by Malcolm Elwin, then J. C.
Trewin. Denham, Buckinghamshire, then London: Westaway Press, No. 1
(Summer 1946)-vol. 7. no. 3 (Autumn 1952)

\

Note: Possibly revived as *The New West Country Magazine* C66

\

Abs: Short stories, articles and poems. The emphasis is, as the title
suggests, on celebrating and increasing knowledge about the West
Country. Poets include John Betjeman, Patric Dickinson, Dorothy
Wordsworth (a previously unpublished poem), A. L. Rowse, Anne Treneer,
Jack R. Clemo, and others. Other contributors (of prose) include: Ronald
Duncan, Henry Williamson, Sean O'Casey, Llewelyn Powys, T. F. Powys,
Geoffrey Grigson, and Arthur Caddick, among many.

\

BL: P.P.6049.ik

CUL: L478.C.17

TCD: 104.p.106-108

\

\

**145 The White Horseman: prose and verse of the New Apocalypse** /
edited

by J. F. Hendry and Henry Treece. London: Routledge, 1941

\

Profiled in: Tolley 1940s

\

Abs: The second New Apocalypse anthology. An introduction by G. S.
Fraser suggests the New Apocalypse is the next dialectical stage from
Surrealism and highlights the work of J. D. Hendry, Henry Treece and
Nicholas Moore. As well as the work of these four, the anthology
includes verse by Norman MacCaig, Tom Scott and Vernon Watkins, an essay
by Robert Melville on “Apocalypse in Painting”, an essay by Hendry on
“Myth and Social Integration” and some fiction by several of the poets.
The other anthologies were *The New Apocalypse* and *The Crown and the
Sickle*.

\

BL: 12299.b.18

NLS: X.184.l

\

**146 The Wind and the Rain** / edited by Michael Allmand, Neville
Braybrooke and others. London: Phoenix Press, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Jan.
1941)-vol .7 no. 2/3 [April/July 1951]. Then, New Series: Easter 1962.

\

Index: Sader

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich, Stanton, Tolley 1940s

Related Imprint: Phoenix Press

\

Abs: Founded by Michael Allmand. An account of this general literary
review is given by Braybrooke in the Easter 1962 issue.

\

BL: Lacking: vol. 1.no. 1; vol. 2 no. 1. Main sequence: P.P.5938.bbt.
New Series: P.P.5126.nv.

CUL: L900.C.223

TCD: Vol. 2 no..3 (1944)-Vol. 7 no. 2/3. (110.s.20a-23)

\

\

**147 The Windmill: being a selection of essays, papers, stories and
verses…** / edited by Reginald Moore and Edward Lane. London: Heinemann,
1944-48

\

Profiled in: Hoffman, Allen & Ulrich; Sullivan 1914-1984

Reprint: Millwood, New York: Kraus Reprint, 1967

\

Abs: Perhaps more significant for its fiction, this commercial magazine
did however publish poetry including Wrey Gardiner, Kenneth Patchen,
Stevie Smith, Kathleen Raine and F. T. Prince. Moore and Lane co-edited
from 1944-46, but from 1947-48 Lane edited alone.

\

BL: 12360.g.2

CUL: L900.C.238

TCD: (132.t.38-40)

\

\

**148 Writers of the Midlands** / edited by Stanley Derricourt.
Birmingham: [Stanley Derricourt; then Thomas's Publications], No. 1
[1946]-2 [1948?]

\

Abs: A modest attempt to build a cultural critical mass in the Midlands,
publishing short fiction, articles on Midlands arts (e.g. on theatre and
broadcasting), and a poem per issue (James Kirkup and W. H. Boore
respectively). Although a commercial publisher was used for the second
issue, with letters of support from Derek Stanford and J. B. Pick (the
latter welcoming the magazine, but questioning the idea of “Midland
writing”), the magazine appears to have ceased after that.

\

BL: 011840.m.75

\

**149 Writers of Tomorrow: new sketches by soldiers and workers of
to-day** / edited by Peter Ratazzi. London: Resurgam Books, No. 1
(1945)-5 (Summer 1948)

\

Note: From no. 3 onward published by Clark's Publications (Bristol).

Related Imprint: Resurgam Books (apparently an imprint of Favil Press)
published a small number of poetry collections as well as the
anonymously edited *Today's New Poets: an anthology of contemporary
verse.*[1944.] BL: 11606.b.38.

\

Abs: Largely short fiction but with poems by for example Raymond Tong,
John Bate, Derek Stanford, Sydney Tremayne, John Atkins, John Bayliss,
Margaret Stewart, Lucy Worth, Howard Sergeant. J. F. Hendry contributes
a prose “Letter to Sarah Bernhardt”; Aneurin Rhys contributes an essay,
“What Shall We Write”. See also *Resurgam Younger Poets*.

\

BL: W.P.1359

CUL: 2-4. (L727.D.78)

TCD: 2-3. (PAM K.7 no.8-9)

\

\

**150 Writing Today** / edited by Denys Val Baker and Peter Ratazzi.
London: Staples & Staples, No. 1 (Oct. 1943)-4 (Winter 1946)

\

Abs: Short stories and poems, including W. S. Graham, Robert Greacen,
Nicholas Moore, Sylvia Read, Hugh MacDiarmid, John Heath-Stubbs. From
no. 2 onward, Baker edited the magazine on his own.

\

BL: 12299.e.20

CUL: (L996.D.6)

\

**151 X6** / edited by Derek Stanford and John Bate. [Croydon]: [Derek
Stanford for the Army Bomb Disposal Squad], [No. 1 (1940?)]-6 (Nov.
1941)

\

Note: Continued by: *Oasis*

\

Abs: Typewritten miscellany of short fiction, poems, articles and
reviews. Poets include Bate, Nicholas Moore, and Jack [ie John] Bayliss.

\

BL: No. 2 (Jan 1941), no. 3 (Mar 1941), no. 6 (Nov 1941). (YA.1989.b.1)

\

**152 Z: Oxford & Cambridge writing** / edited by Donald Bain, Antony
Brown, Mark Roberts, John Croft, Patrick Gardiner, and Francis King.
Cambridge: Anthony Brown & Donald Bain, [No. 1] (1942)

\

Profiled in: Tolley 1940s

\

Abs: Short fiction and poetry. Contributors include Michael Hamburger,
John Heath-Stubbs, and Sidney Keyes. Sometimes referred to simply as
*Oxford & Cambridge Writing*.

\

BL: 12362.aa.18

UCL

\

\

