**1 4: a review of the visual arts, literature, music and drama** /
edited by Garry Denbury. Glastonbury: [Garry Denbury], Vol. 1 no. 1
(Oct. 1952)

\

Abs: The first and probably only issue contained one poem only, by Edgar
Martin.

\

BL: P.P.5938.bds

NLS: 6.598

\

\

**2 Agenda** / edited by William Cookson, then co-edited with Peter
Dale, then edited by Patricia McCarthy. London: Poets and Painters
Press, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Jan 1959)- . ISSN: 0002-0796

\

Index: Sader (Vol. 1 (1959)-8 (1970) only; Little Magazine Project, Vol.
1-4 (1966) only

### Profiled in: Görtschacher 1, Sullivan 1914-1984 {.western lang="en-GB" style="widows: 0; orphans: 0"}

Interview: With Peter Dale, in Görtschacher 1; with Patricia McCarthy,
in *Poetry News: the Newsletter of the Poetry Society,* Winter 2003/4,
p.8

Anthology: William Cookson (ed.), *Agenda: an anthology: the first four
decades (1959-1993)* (Manchester: Carcanet, 1994), BL: YC.1994.a.2124.
Includes an introduction by Cookson

Related Imprint: Agenda Editions

Reprint: Nendeln, Liechtenstein: Kraus Reprint, [undated]. (Vols. 1-5
only)

Microform: University Microfilms International, [undated]

\

Abs: An advocate of Ezra Pound’s poetry and ideas, but also of a wide
range of poetry informed by an understanding of poetry’s formal
qualities, by the history of poetry and by modernism. Special issues
have focused on Thomas Hardy, Pound, David Jones, H.D., Wyndham Lewis,
Hugh MacDiarmid, Basil Bunting, Louis Zukofsky, Giuseppe Ungaretti,
Ronald Duncan, Stanley Burnshaw, Robert Lowell, Geoffrey Hill, Peter
Levi, and others.

\

BL: P.P.5109.aac

CUL: P727.C.36

NLS: Lacking Vol. 17 no. 3-4 (1979); vol. 28 no. 4 (1990); vol. 31 no.1
(1993); and vol.36 no.1 (1998). (HJ4.1268 SER)

\
\

**3 Ambit: a quarterly of poems, short stories, drawings and criticism**
/ edited by Martin Bax. London: No. 1 (Summer 1959)- . ISSN: 0002-6772

\

Indexes: *Ambit* 101 (1985) was the index to 1-100; 100-150 were
published by Ambit in 1999

Profiled in: In Martin Bax’s introduction to *Ambit* 101

Interview: With Martin Bax, *3 a.m. magazine*, June 2002,
www.3ammagazine.com/litarchives/2002\_jun/interview\_martin\_bax.html;
with Martin Bax, *Poetry News: the Newsletter of the Poetry Society*,
Spring 2003, p.8

Related Imprint: Ambit have occasionally published books, e.g. Anselm
Hollo’s collection *Faces & Forms* (1965), BL: X.909/6673, and E. A.
Markham’s short story collection *Something unusual* (1986) BL:
YH.1987.a.230

Website: www.ambitmagazine.co.uk

\

Abs: Modelled to some degree on John Middleton Murry’s pre-First World
War magazine *Rhythm* (BL: P.P.5938.de), the look and format of this
magazine was established from the first issue, in part because it used
the typesetting machine the Variotyper which allowed the integration of
visual work. Reproductions of sketches and other black and white
drawings intersperse poetry, short stories and comment from the word go,
and there is an independent tone to the editorial and content,
characterised in the first issue by an attack on John Betjeman’s poetry.
In later years colour plates were also used and the magazine
acknowledged “the [editorial] assistance” of J. G. Ballard and Carol Ann
Duffy among others, both of whom had contributed work to the magazine
early on. There is a sensuous hedonism to the production and editorial
values, and it has been controversial. It famously ran a competition for
work produced under the influence of drugs (illegal or otherwise), and
contributions by Ballard, David Hockney and others have sometimes lent
to calls for its funding to be withdrawn. Its 2003 submission guidelines
list the following types of work that should *not* be sent for
consideration: “indiscriminately centre-justified or italicised poems;
parochial "bed-sitter", life is grim, I've got no money poems;
self-consciously poetic poems; poems aspiring to Keats or Wordsworth;
that man (or woman) done me over poems; sweeping generalisation poems;
why are we here, what is it all about poems; [and] horror / ghost /
fantasy stories.”

\

BL: P.P.7612.aaz

CUL: 8 (1961)- . (L727.C.259)

NLS: 1-6, 8-81 (Y.4); 82-97, 99-114 (HJ4.463 PER); 115-163, 165- .
(HJ8.114 SER)

TCD: 8-118, 136- . (PER 82-25)

UCL

\

Nottingham Trent University

Poetry Library: 8, 11, 37, 39- .

\

\

**4 And** / edited by Bob Cobbing, Mary Levien, John Rowan, and Adrian
Clarke. [London]: Arts Together, then Writers Forum, No. 1 (July 1954)-

\

Note: The alternative title and sub-title *Hendon Arts Review* was used
only for the first issue. ** No. 6 is also described as WF [i.e. Writers
Forum] 100

Interview: With Bob Cobbing, Görtschacher 2

Website: pages.britishlibrary.net/writersforum

\

Abs: A very occasional magazine, e.g. the second issue did not appear
until February 1961. The first issue was edited by Bob Cobbing and Mary
Levien, the second by Cobbing and John Rowan. Further details, including
contributors, are given at the Writers Forum website.

\

BL: 2-5, 7-11. (ZA.9.b.2079).

UCL

\

Poetry Library: 2, 4-6

\

**5 The Anglo-Welsh Review** / edited by Raymond Garlick, then Roland
Mathias, then Gillian Clarke, and others. Pembroke Dock: The Dock Leaves
Press, vol. 9 no. 23 (1958)-no.88 (1988). ISSN 0003-3405

\

Note: Imprint varies. Continues: *Dock Leaves*

Profiled in: Sullivan 1914-1984; Sam Adams, *Roland Mathias* (Cardiff:
University of Wales Press, 1995), BL: YK.1996.a.2281

Anthology: Vera Rich (ed.) *Healing of the Nations*, Dock Leaves Press,
1965. An Anglo-Welsh Review Supplement.

\

Abs: A key magazine of the Welsh literary scene for three decades, the
magazine published essays, reviews, and poems. The editors of the last
issue, Greg Hill and Huw Jones suggested that “Anglo-Welsh” may no
longer be an appropriate term for work produced by Welsh authors writing
in English.

\

BL: P.P.5938.bdh

CUL: L727.C.142

NLS: No. 24-no. 88. (NF.1549 (No.23-no.56) and PER HJ2.47 (No.57-no.88))

\

Poetry Library: 44-47, 64-65, 70-80, 85-87

\

\

**6 Anthology of the Gwent Poetry Society.** Newport: **** Gwent Poetry
Society, 1 (1956/7)- .

\

BL: 1 (YA.1995.a.16057); 41 (1996/97)- . (ZK.9.a.5902)

CUL: 28(1983/84)- . (L727.c.871)

NLS: 28 (1983/84)- . (HP.sm.437)

\

\

**7 Arbiter** / edited by George Bull, Peter Mansell-Moullin, Sebastian
Kerr and Jeremy Mitchell. Oxford: The Editors, at Brasnose College, no.
1 (Winter 1952)-2 (Spring 1953)

\

Abs: Mostly poetry, but some short fiction and articles. Contributors
included Donald Hall, Roy Campbell (translating Lorca), Elizabeth
Jennings, George MacBeth, Lucien Stryk, Neville Braybrooke and others.
After the four co-editors of issue one, Jeremy Mitchell edited the
second issue alone.

\

BL: P.901/1579

**8 Artisan**. Liverpool: Heron Press, [1, 1953?-5, 1954?]

\

Related Imprint: Heron Press also published the anonymously edited
pamphlet, *Nine American Poets* [1953], BL: YA.1992.a.1182, and *timeo
hominem unius mulieris* by Vincent Ferrini was advertised in *Trace* in
1954, but no copy is as yet known.

\

Abs: No. 4 was Hugh Creighton Hill’s *Some Propositions from the
Universal Theorem;* no. 5 was the single collection *Travellers Alone*
by Alan Brownjohn. Listed in *Trace*, which describes it as having an
interest in metrical invention.

\

BL: 4. (YA.2003.a.11049). 5. (YA.1988.a.4116)

CUL: 4-5. (Upper Library)

UCL

\

\

**9 The Arts and Philosophy** / edited by Sidney Arnold. London:
Candlelight Press, No. 1 (Summer 1950)-no. 3 (Spring 1962)

\

Abs: As its title suggests, a general arts and philosophy review.
Includes some discussion of poetry, and two poems (in French) by Marian
Arnold.

\

BL: P.P.5938.bdl

CUL: L500.C.139

\

\

**10 The Aylesford Review** / edited by Father Brocard Sewell.
Aylesford: The English Carmelites, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Autumn 1955)-vol. 9 no.
1 (Autumn 1967). New Series: Vol. 1, no. 1 (Summer 1968)

\

Index: Colin Stanley (compiler), *The Aylesford Review 1955-1968: an
index*, with a preface by its editor, Brocard Sewell (Nottingham:
Paupers’ Press, 1984), BL: Cup.510.dop.1

Related Imprint: Aylesford Review Poets

\

Abs: A Carmelite general literary review with material that went far
beyond conventional religious interes. Poems included those by Angela
Carter, Gregory Corso, Ruth Fainlight, Anselm Hollo, dsh [Dom Silvester
Houédard], Stevie Smith, Thomas Merton, Ian Hamilton Finlay, Harry
Fainlight, Michael Horovitz, Frances Horovitz, Elizabeth Jennings, Peter
Levi, John J. Sharkey, Penelope Shuttle, D. M. Thomas, Jack Clemo, and
Stefan Themerson. Fred Uhlman’s prose fables were also regularly
included. Houédard contributes a note on 'Carmel: Renewal and Reform'
but also “Beat and Afterbeat: a parallel condition of poetry and
theology?” and “to freshen our sense of the language we do have”. George
Bowering contributes “Universal and Particular: An Enquiry into a
Personal Esthetic”, and there were also essays by Frederick William
Rolfe (Baron Corvo), John Gray, John Cowper Powys, M. P. Shiel, Henry
Williamson, William Morris and others.

\

BL: P.P.210.lae

CUL: L100.C.42

NLS: Vol. 1, no. 2, 3, 5-7 ; vol. 2, no. 5 ; vol. 3, no. 2 ; vol. 9, no.
1. (HP1.78.4410 (Vol. 1-2 and P.80 (Vol.3-9))

UCL: Vol. 1-9 (incomplete). New Series: Vol. 1 no. 1.

\

\

**11 The Bullring.** West Worthing, then Liverpool, 1953-195?

\

Abs: Listed in *Trace* as "largely devoted to comments on the literary
scene." No holdings known.

\

\

**Camobap** **** ***See*** **Samovar**

\

\

**12 Chance: new writing and art** / literary editors: Peter Marchant,
Robin Scott-Smith, Colin Haycraft; art editor: Jack Stafford. London:
Jack Stafford, 1^st^ Chance (Oct. 1952)-4^th^ Chance (Autumn 1953)

\

Abs: The literary editors seem to have edited on a rotating basis.
*Chance* published short stories, artwork, book reviews and poetry (the
latter usually contained in sections printed on blue-grey coloured
paper). Poets included Claire Delavenay, Alistair Reid, Thom Gunn,
Hilary Corke, Anthony Thwaite, and Donald Hall, with essays by Cecil Day
Lewis (“On Translating Poetry”) and Ronald Duncan on Alun Lewis.

\

BL: P.P.5938.bdq

CUL: L999.C.3.78

NLS: NJ.300 PER

\

\

**13 Chanticleer** / edited by Patrick Galvin and Gordon Wharton.
London: Chanticleer, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Autumn 1952)-4 (Spring 1954)

\

Abs: After the first issue, Galvin edited alone. Though some fiction and
reviews were published, this was mainly a poetry magazine with a
particular interest in French poetry in translation. Contributors
include: Sydney Goodsir Smith, James Kirkup, Cecil Day Lewis, Peter
Russell, Robert Desnos, Jon Silkin, Robert Greacen, Gael Turnbull, G. S.
Fraser, Jacques Prévert, Raymond Queneau, John Gawsworth, W. Price
Turner, Muriel Spark, and Oswell Blakeston.

\

BL: P.P.5938.bdr

CUL: L727.C.178

NLS: 6.461 PER

\

\

**14 Chequer** / edited by Harry Guest; Ronald Hayman; Malcolm Ballin
and Paul McQuail. Cambridge: Trinity Hall, No. 1 (1953)-11 (Winter
1956/56)

\

Abs: Contributors included Anne Stevenson, Ted Hughes, Sylvia Plath and
Christopher Levenson.

\

BL: No. 2 (May 1953) and no. 11 only. (P.P.5939.bhi)

CUL: No. 1 (1953)-7 (1954). (CAM.C.31.82)

\

\

**15 The Christian Poet** / edited by Frederic Vanson. Spondon, Derby:
[Frederic Vanson], No. 1 [1953]

\

Related Imprint: Gemini Press, presumably belonging to Vanson himself,
published his *The Furious Finding. Fifteen* *sonnets* (1950, BL:
11658.b.39) and his *Four Holy Sonnets* (1955, BL: 11660.e.13)

\

Abs: The first and probably only issue consisted of three foolscap,
typewritten, duplicated leaves of very poor production quality. It
consisted solely of poems by Marjorie Bunt, Gilbert Matthers, Maureen
Duffy, Olive Culshaw, Douglas Lord, and others. Matthers had published a
collection of poems, *My Thoughts*, in 1919; BL: 011649.de.127. Maureen
Duffy would later be known as a novelist and editor as well as a poet.
Olive Culshaw published two collections from Outposts: *Silver Wyre* in
1959, BL: 11662.ee.12; and *We Are Not Extinguished* in 1976, BL:
X.909/41013. Vanson, who had edited *Gemini* a few years earlier went on
to have his own collections of poetry published by several different
publishers over the decades.

\

BL: P.P.5126.fa

\

\

**15a Cinquième Saison** / edited by Raymond Syte, then Henri
Chopin. Toulouse, then Paris, then, as *OU,* Ingatestone: [1, Spring
1958]-42/43 (1974). ISSN: 0529-777X

\

Note: The magazine changed title to *OU* with no. 20/21, also described
as Vol. 1/2. The new magazine had variant titles including *Revue OU*
and *Review OU* and the previous *Cinquième Saison*, and sometimes had
the sub-title, *revue de poèsie évolutive*

Anthology: *OU Sound Poetry: An Anthology* (Alga Marghen, 2002); 5 vinyl
discs of material originally included with *OU* and an additional Henri
Chopin disc (British Library Sound Archive: 1SS0004009)

Related Imprint: Collection OU

Interview: with Henri Chopin, by Nicholas Zurbrugg, in *Art & Design*,
Vol. 10 no. 11/12 (1995), Profile No. 45: The Multimedia Text; BL:
P.425/151

\

Abs: Visual poetry, especially concrete poetry, and sound poetry, with
other experimentation. Syte founded the magazine in Toulouse, Chopin
being a contributor from the first issue and becoming editor from no. 4
(1959), with Syte still “directeur”. By no. 10 Chopin was in sole
control of the magazine and moved it to Paris. He moved to Ingatestone
in Essex in the late 1960s, with the first issue published from there
being no. 34/35 (1969). Contributors included Michel Seuphor, Raoul
Hausmann, Stefan Themerson, Paul de Vree, Bob Cobbing, Bengt Emil
Johnson, Francois Dufrêne, Brion Gysin, Jochen Gerz, Sten Hanson, and
others. Earlier issues were conventional in format but the issues
published in England involved loose sheets, posters, and sound
recordings etc., contained in folders.

\

TCD: 26/27, 28/29, 33. (OLS X-2-121 no.1-4)

UCL: 22, 25, 33, 34/35-40/41

\

\

**16 Circus: the pocket review of our time**. London: Hubbard
Publications, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Apr. 1950)-3 (June 1950)

\

Abs: A general review which also published fiction, poems, and cartoons;
popular in intention, but short-lived. With articles by Jack Lindsay and
Dylan Thomas, poems by Gavin Ewart, Norman Cameron, and reviews by Angus
Wilson, Oswell Blakeston, and others. Edited anonymously.

\

BL: P.P.7616.uf

NLS: No. 1. (HP1.79.747)

\

\

**17 Colonnade: a journal of literature and the arts** / edited by Iain
Fletcher, Ian Scott-Kilvert, D.S. Carne Ross. London, Vol. 1 no.
1(1952)-no. 2 (1952). ISSN 0531-1136

\

Note: Absorbed by *Adam International Review*, where it became a column.

\

CUL: L700.C.48

NLS: 1961.7

UCL

\

\

**18 Concern: a literary magazine** / edited by Harold Silver, then
Norman Buller. Cambridge: [Concern], No. 1 (Apr. 1951)-3 [1953]

\

Abs: Essays, short fiction, and poems: e.g. Chris Busby contributes an
essay on Salvatore Quasimodo, with translations of his poems, Harold
Silver assesses Herbert Read's work, Doris Lessing contributes a short
story, and there are poems from Montagu Slater, Ewart Milne, the
editors, and others.

\

BL: P.P.6058.hfa

CUL: 1-2 (1952). (L999.C.3.99)

\

\

**19 Couth: a magazine of new writing, gaiety and good living** / edited
by Richard Cox and others. Oxford: [Holywell Press for Couth], [No. 1]
Spring, [1954]-[No. 3] Summer, [1955]

\

BL: P.901/1243

CUL: L727.C.217

NLS: [No. 1]-[No. 2]. (5.2289)

\

\

**20 Crescent** / edited by R. Brian de L'Troath. Leicester: [Crescent],
Vol. 1 no. 1 (Nov. 1959)-no. 3 (Summer 1960)

\

Abs: The first issue's sub-title, “A Leicester magazine devoted to the
arts and matters of topical interest”, illustrates the locus of interest
here. In the first issue there's a memoir of W. H. Davies by Samuel J.
Looker, an article on the patronising nature of the Soviet Union's
allegedly implementation of arts programmes, short stories, a review of
Leicester-born Colin Wilson's *Age of Defeat*, artwork from local
artists, an “abstract” poem by R. O. M. Bayldon, and a free verse poem
by the editor. Production values went up a notch from a typed stencil to
commercial vari-typing with the last issue.

\

BL: P.P.4881.td

\

\

**21 The Criterion.** Galway: Arts Society, University College Galway
[1953-1984?]

\

Profiled in: Tom Clyde, *Irish Literary Magazines: an outline and
descriptive bibliography* (Dublin: Irish Academic Press, 2003), BL:
2725.g.3414

Anthology: Gerald Dawe, *Criterion 1953-1983: An Anthology* (1983)

\

TCD: 1973; May 1984 (PER 90-464)

\

\

**22 Critical Quarterly** / edited by C. B.Cox and A. E. Dyson, and
others. Bangor and Hull, then London, then Manchester. Vol. 1 no. 1
(Spring 1959)- . ISSN 0011-1562

\

Index: Michael Freeman, *Critical Quarterly: Index to Volumes 1-25,
1959-83* (Manchester University Press, 1984), BL: YC.2001.a.15777

Profiled in: Sullivan 1914-1984

Related Imprint: Anthologies of new poetry were published first as
*Critical Quarterly Supplement*, no. 1 (1960), then as *Critical
Quarterly Poetry Supplement* nos.2-16 (1962-1975), both BL: ZA.9.a.9651.
A Critical Quarterly Poetry Pamphlet was published by Manchester
University Press, *Poetry Now*, edited by Brian Cox [1982?], containing
poems by twelve poets. BL: X.950/14134.

Reprint: Millwood, New York: Kraus Reprint, [undated]

Abs: As its title suggested, dedicated to literary criticism but between
the essays (whose authors included Raymond Williams, Bernard Bergonzi,
and Malcolm Bradbury) there were in the early years poems by Ted Hughes,
Charles Tomlinson, Thom Gunn, Sylvia Plath, R. S. Thomas, Philip Larkin,
and others. A sister journal with shorter articles and reviews, *The
Critical Survey*, was published from 1962, as the "journal of the
Critical Quarterly Society", based at Hull.

\

BL: P.P.4881.sct

CUL: P700.C.220

NLS: Vol. 1-21 (NJ.321/2 SER) then vol. 22- . (HJ3.703 SER)

\

**23 Crux**. Spondon, Derby, [1953]

\

Abs: Listed in *Trace*, but perhaps this was a pre-publication
announcement for what was actually published as *The Christian Poet.*

\

\

**24 Dejected Nurses** /edited by Fred Leavings. Bristol: [Dejected
Nurses], [No. 1] (Spring 1959)

\

Abs: Probably a one-off, this appears to be an unofficial student
magazine from Bristol University. It consists solely of fabricated
testimonials in praise of the magazine, an editorial by Leavings (real
name?), four anonymous parodic poems (Eliot and Arnold are sources), and
an agony column which suggests that Empson's salts will purge your
ambiguities.

\

BL: P.P.5126.o

\

\

**25 Delta: a literary review from Cambridge** / edited by Rodney
Banister and Peter Redgrove, and others. Cambridge: [Delta], No. 1
(1953)-62 (1981)

\

Index: Sader (No 1 (1953)-47 (May 1970) only).

Related work: John Kinsella, “Peter Porter – 1998” [Interview with
Porter], www.johnkinsella.org/interviews/porter2.html

\

Abs: Later editors included Philip Hobsbaum, Christopher Levenson, and
Simon Gray. No 8 (Spring 1956) and no. 10 (Autumn 1956) were special
issues on the Movement. Contributors included Sylvia Plath, Ted Hughes,
Thomas Kinsella, Thom Gunn, Peter Porter, Donald Davie, Roy Fisher, and
others. In an interview conducted by John Kinsella, cited above, Peter
Porter remarks of Peter Redgrove: “He actually founded a magazine here
called *Delta* which operated for quite some time. Its subsequent
editors included not only Hobsbaum but also a man who became a very
famous playwright later, Simon Gray. But they all believed in the
principle that literature was discussable. They believed more or less I
suppose what people believed in Ancient Greece, a sort of peripateia
where you wandered around and discussed things.”

\

BL: P.P.5126.bcd

CUL: CAM.C.41.3

NLS: 1-3; 5-16; 18-62. (NH.290 PER)

\

\

**26 Departure: a magazine of literature and the arts** / edited by John
Adlard, Alan Brownjohn, Bernard Donoughue and Dennis Keane. Oxford:
O.U.E.A.C, Vol. 1. no. 1 [1953?]-vol. 4 no. 11 [1957]

\

Note: The volume designation runs independently of the individual
number, i.e. there were 11 issues in total, collected in four volumes.
Editors varied

Reprint: Nendeln, Liechtenstein: Kraus Reprint, 1968

\

Abs: A magazine based at Oxford University and publishing mainly but not
wholly Oxford undergraduates’ poetry. Contributors included: Vernon
Watkins, Kathleen Raine, Martin Seymour-Smith, J. E. M. Lucie-Smith [ie
Edward Lucie-Smith], James Kirkup, Norman Nicholson, Sydney Tremayne,
John Heath-Stubbs, Geoffrey Hill, George MacBeth, Jenny Joseph, Anthony
Thwaite, Elizabeth Bartlett, Lotte Zurndorfer, Alex Comfort, Adrian
Mitchell, Karen Loewenthal, Donald Hall, W. Price Turner, Nicholas
Moore, Elizabeth Jennings, Mary Lomer, Jon Silkin, Philip Larkin, Peter
Redgrove, Donald Davie (who responds in rhyme in no. 8 to an essay by
Seymour-Smith in no. 7), William Empson, Richard Eberhart, and Bernard
Bergonzi. Loosely, a predecessor of *New Departures*.

\

BL: Vol. 1 no. 2 [1953?]-vol. 3 no. 9 [1955?]. (P.P.5938.caw)

CUL: Vol. 1 no. 3; vol. 3 no. 7-vol. 4 no. 10 (Autumn 1956).
(L727.B.241)

NLS: Vol. 3 no. 7 (Spring 1955)-vol. 4 no. 10 (Autumn 1956). (1910.20)

UCL: Reprint

\

Oxford University Library Services: Per. 2705.d.597

Poetry Library: Vol. 2 no. 5-6; vol. 3 no. 9

\

\

**27 Deuce** / edited by Gog and Magog. Cheltenham: [Deuce], Pack 1 no.
2 (Nov. 1957)-Pack 2 (Dec. 1959). New Series, No. 1 (Spring 1960)-no. 9
(Spring 1962).

\

Related Imprint: Deuce Publications published at least four books,
including collections by Yann Lovelock and David Holliday.

\

Abs: “Centred on, but not limited to, Cheltenham, it is intended as a
forum for argument, a rostrum for the opinionated, a platform for
prophets, a shooting box for critics, as well as a place of publication
for worthwhile stories, essays, poems and articles.” - editorial in the
first issue. Seems to have worked in association with the Cheltenham
Theatre and Arts Club. Until the New Series, launched in Spring 1960,
the same small number of contributors recur. That issue, however, seems
to mark a widening of intake. Contributors include David Holliday, F. J.
Bradley, Peter J. Dale, Ian (ie Yann) Lovelock, Frances Harland, David
Tipton, Ross MacAulay, D. M. Black, Marion Schoeberlein, Ena Hollis, Tom
Malcolm, Geoffrey Holloway, R. L. Cook, Eric Hermes, Ruth Raymund, Vera
Rich and others. One of the best pieces is a (doggerel) Drinker's
Alphabet, by Mark Black, in the March 1958 issue. According to Yann
Lovelock, in Görtschacher 2, David Holliday seems to have be one of the
editors, or *the* editor.

\

BL: P.P.4881.scf

CUL: New Series. 3-9. (L.727.c.244)

NLS: New Series. 3-9. (6.988)

\

\

**28 Dialogue** / edited by Alasdair Clayre and Peter Jay. Oxford:
Dialogue, Vol. 1 no. 1 (March 1959)-vol. 3 no. 3 (Summer 1960). ISSN:
0433-2989

\

Note: Merged with *Gemini* to become the alternating *Gemini /
Dialogue*.

\

Abs: A general cultural review, with political essays e.g. by Denis
Healy, a review essay on East European poetry by Julian Mitchell,
articles on War Crimes by Leszek Kolakowski and the philosopher Alasdair
MacIntyre, and translations from contemporary Russian prose (fiction and
non-fiction). See also entry for *Gemini*.

\

BL: Vol. 1 no. 1 only. (PP.7615.bw)

NLS: Vol. 1 no. 3 (Autumn 1957)-vol. 2 no. 8 (Autumn 1959), but lacking
Vol. 1 no. 4 (Winter 1957)-vol. 2 no. 5 (Winter 1959). (6.920)

\

\

**29 Elegreba** / edited by Roye McCoye. Abergele: [Roye McCoye], No. 1
(Spring 1958)-3 (1959). ISSN 0420-9834

\

Related Imprint: Elegreba Press published the anthology *Five: new
poems*, by Philip Callow, Ronald Hall, Leonard Kendall, Roye McCoye and
Edward Storey (Chippenham: Elegreba Press, 1961), BL: YA.1997.a.10117.
The editor had published his own collection *Not to Lethe* in c.1956.,
BL: 11660.f.26

\

Abs: Poems by Paul Casimir, Corinne Sherman, Gael Turnbull, W. Price
Turner, Edward Storey, R. L. Cook, Geoffrey Holloway, Gordon Harris,
Ewart Milne and others. Reviews by W. Price Turner, Roye McCoye, Eric
Ratcliffe, Derek Maggs and others. Probably inspired by Dylan Thomas's
backwards town Llareggub in *Under Milk Wood*, the title of the magazine
is Abergele in reverse.

\

BL: 1-2. (P.P.5126.nab)

CUL: 1-2. (L999.c.3.151)

\

\

**30 Encounter** / edited by Irving Kristol and Stephen Spender, and
others. London: Martin Secker for the Congress for Cultural Freedom,
[Vol. 1] No. 1 (1953)-[Vol. 75] no. 427 (1990)

\

Index: Every volume was issued with an index (i.e. every six issues of
this monthly)

Profiled in: Sullivan 1914-1984

Related imprint: Encounter Pamphlet Series

Reprint: New York: AMS Press, 1969

Abs: Well-funded cultural review of considerable longevity and a
circulation in the tens of thousands, making it hardly a “little
magazine”. Many of its contributors were unaware that it was part funded
by the Central Intelligence Agency of the United States as a soft
propaganda weapon against the Soviet Union. Nevertheless, published some
interesting if well-established poets and other literary figures. Auden,
Betjeman, Creeley, Hughes, Robert Lowell and Christopher Middleton
withdrew after the revelations in 1967.

BL: P.P.5938.can

CUL: P900.B.40

NLS: Vol. 1-49. (P.65 PER); Vol. 50-75. (QJ9.149 PER).

\

\

**31 Envoi** / edited by J. C. Meredith Scott; Robert Wesley; Anne
Lewis-Smith; Roger Elkin. Cheltenham, then Newport, then Ballachulish,
then Stoke-on-Trent, then Newport, No. 1 [1956]- . ISSN: 0013-9394

\

Anthology: Eg. *Envoi Spring Anthology* (Newport: Envoi Poets, 1988),
BL: PP.5126.naf/3; *Envoi Summer anthology*, (Newport: Envoi Poets,
1989), BL: PP.5126.naf/3

Related Imprint: Envoi Poets

\

BL: P.P.5126.naf

CUL: No. 15-16; 1980- . (L727.C.301)

NLS: No. 9-103, but Lacking 11-13. (P.126.PER). 104- . (HJ4.1357 PER)

PL: No. 33, 41-59, 76-82, 88- .

UCL: No. 3, 8, 10-12, 14- .

\

\

**32 Extra Verse** / edited by A. G. Hill, then Peter Williams, then D.
M. Black. Birmingham, then Edinburgh: Extra Verse, No. 1 [Summer
1959?]-17 (1966). ISSN 0531-6243

\

Abs: Contributors included Anthony Edkins, Philip Hobsbaum, David
Tipton, Roy Fisher, Anselm Hollo, Yevgeni Yevtushenko, Andrei
Voznesensky, Jim Burns, Penelope Shuttle, D. M. Thomas, Giles Gordon,
Vernon Scannell, George Mackay Brown, Robin Fulton, Yann Lovelock, Libby
Houston, George Macbeth, Robert Garioch, Edwin Morgan and Ernst Jandl.
D. M. Black edited issues 12-16, when the magazine moved to Edinburgh;
these included the special Ian Hamilton Finlay number (no. 15).

\

BL: No. 1 [Summer 1959?]-5 (Spring 1961), 7 (Summer 1962), 10 (Summer
1963)-17 (1966). (P.P.5126.oa)

CUL: 3-16. (L727.C.304)

NLS: No. 2 (Autumn 1959)-17 (1966), but Lacking no. 9 (1963) and no. 11
(1963). (5.5946)

\

\

**33 Fantasma Miscellany** / edited by J. V. Jones. Worthing: Fantasma,
[No. 1, 1951]-7

\

BL: Lacking no. 2. (012359.a.55)

\

\

**34 Fantasma Parade**. Worthing: Fantasma, 2 [1951]

\

Note: Continues: *Fantasma Supplement*

\

BL: W.P. 2444

\

\

**The Fantasy Poets** *see* **New Poems**

\

\

**35 Fantasma Supplement**. Worthing: Fantasma, [No.1, 1951]

\

Note: Continued by: *Fantasma Parade*.

\

BL: W.P.2444

\

\

**36 FDARTS.** Rhu, Ullapool, by Garve, Ross-shire. 1952?

\

Abs: Noted in *Gargoyle* as a “critical literary newsletter”.

\

\

**Four** *see* **4: a review of the visual arts, literature, music and
drama** C1

\

\

**37 Friday Market** / edited by A. L. Shearn. [Thames Ditton]: [Ember
Press], No. 1 (1956)-15 (1961)

\

CUL: No. 13-15. (L999.C.3.154)

UCL: No. 1-14

\

\

**38 Gairm: an raitheachan Gaidhlig** / edited by Ruaraidh MacThomais
and Fionnlagh Domhnullach. Glaschu [Glasgow], 1952- .

\

Related Imprint: Gairm published collections by Anne Frater, Iain Mac
a'Ghobhainn (Iain Crichton Smith), Maoilis M. Caimbeul, Ruaraidh
MacThomais (Derick Thomson) and others.

\

Abs: A long-standing Scottish literary magazine, publishing to this day.
Devoted to Gaelic literature, language and the arts, and published
entirely in Scottish Gaelic. All of the major modern writers in Gaelic
have had their work published in *Gairm*.

\

BL: P.P.8004.dh.

CUL: Lacking nos. 48-49. (L900.C.21)

NLS

UCL

**39 Gambit: Edinburgh University review** / edited by Peter T.
Froestrup; Tom Scott; Mike Shea; Donald MacArthur; Bill McArthur;
Douglas Eadie; Arthur Smyth… and others. Edinburgh: Edinburgh
University, 1957-Autumn 1965. Then, as *New Gambit*, Vol. 1 no. 1
(Spring 1966)-vol. 11 no. 42/3 [1986]. ISSN: 0016-4283

Abs: A literary review. Contributors included: in *Gambit*, Ian
MacArthur, Robin Fulton, George Mackay Brown, Sydney Goodsir Smith, Tom
Scott, Ian Hamilton Finlay, Norman MacCaig, Alan Jackson, Iain Crichton
Smith, Anselm Hollo, Alan Riddell, George Campbell Hay, Edwin Morgan,
Ken Morrice, Hugh MacDiarmid, Alan Bold, D. M. Black, and others and in
*New Gambit*, Alan Jackson, Adrian Henri, Brian Patten, D. M. Black,
Robert Garioch, Malcolm Rifkind (an essay on democracy and
responsibility), Roger McGough, Ian Hamilton Finlay, Anselm Hollo, Tom
Pickard, Pete Morgan, and others.

\

BL: From *Gambit* Lacking: 1957, Spring-Summer 1958, Autumn 1960, Autumn
1961, Spring 1963, Spring and Summer 1964. (P.P.6150.mbd). From *New
Gambit* Lacking: all except Vol. 1 no. 1 (Spring 1966), Festival 1966,
Spring 1967, Summer 1967, and Winter 1967.

CUL: *Gambit* only (imperfect set). (L985.C.112)

NLS: From *Gambit* Lacking: 1957; Spring-Summer 1958; Autumn 1960;
Summer 1961; Spring 1963; 1964; Spring-Summer 1965. (P.76 PER). From
*New Gambit* Lacking: Vol. 2, no. 6. (Y.106 PER)

UCL: Spring 1960, Spring 1962, Autumn 1962, Spring 1964 only.

\

\

**40 Gargoyle** / [edited by Kenneth Nobes and Christopher Logue].
Northolt Park, Middlesex: [Gargoyle], Nov. 1951-Oct. 1952?

\

Abs: A little magazine with a satirical tone. The editors’ manifesto
begins: “Our purpose is truly charitable: the Enlightenment of the
Unenlightened and the Dissemination of Culture to the Poor and the
Needy. As if that was not sufficient, another modest object will be to
provide an outlet for the Creative Writer (hallelujah!) - we are
compelled to include this immortal phrase for without it no little
magazine manifesto would be complete - thus satisfying the flank
scratching borborygmics of Kensington, the bard of Winchelsea, and
sparing geniuses the need to contract consumption before attaining
recognition. Contributions are invited for which we offer fame.” Most
contributions in these slender magazines are in fact pseudonymous poems,
but presumably Nathaniel Bloodwhisker and Cornelius Grogpot etc are the
editors. Patrick Brangwyn and Pauline Roberts have poems signed with
their real names.

\

BL: Nov. 1951, Feb. 1952, Oct. 1952. (P.P.6018.pdg)

\

\

**41 Gemini: the Oxford and Cambridge magazine** / edited by William
Donaldson; Julian Mitchell, Graeme McDonald; Christopher Levenson; Dom
Moraes; David Howell; David Cammell; Nicholas Tanburn; James Cornish and
Peter Ridout. Cambridge: [Gemini], Vol. 1. no. 1 Spring 1957-[vol. 2 no.
8 (Autumn 1959)?]. Then, as *Gemini / Dialogue*, [Vol. 3 no. 2?] Jan.
1960-vol. 3 no. 3 (Summer 1960).

\

Abs: Contributors included Auden, Philip Hobsbaum, Dom Moraes, Paul
Potts, Vernon Scannell, Peter Levi, Gregory Corso, Peter Redgrove,
Christopher Logue and others; the cover of Autumn 1959 is artwork by W.
S. Graham. The magazine merged and alternated with *Dialogue* in its
last year.

\

BL: Vol. 2 no. 6 (Spring 1959)-no. 8 (Autumn 1959); Jan. 1960-vol. 3 no.
3. (P.P.4881.tar)

CUL: Nos 1-2, 6-8. (L985.b.96)

UCL: Vol. 1 no. 1-no. 5, vol. 2 no. 6, vol. 3 no. 2.

\

\

**Gemini / Dialogue** ***See*** **Gemini** C41

\

\

**42 Gorgon** / edited by Seamus Heaney [and others?]. Belfast: [English
Society, Queen’s University, [No. 1, 1959?]-5 (Hilary 1961)

\

Profiled in: Tom Clyde, *Irish Literary Magazines: an outline and
descriptive bibliography* (Dublin: Irish Academic Press, 2003), BL:
2725.g.3414

\

Abs: The last issue is edited by Seamus Heaney, who signs his editorial
off as “an ex-poet”. It also includes early poems by him including under
the nom-de-plume Incertus.

\

BL: Hilary 1961. (Cup.410.f.750)

\

Queen’s University, Belfast: No. 3-5. (876)

\

\

**43 Grid** / edited by Peter Greene. London, 195-?

\

Abs. Mentioned in *Deuce.*

\

\

**44 Grub Street** / edited by R. D. E. H. and R. C. F., then John
Parry. London: Grub Street, Edition 1 (Aug. 1953)-no. 5 (May/ June 1954)

\

Abs: Short fiction, poetry and reviews. Contributors of poetry included
Jon Silkin, James Kirkup, Alan Brownjohn, Ithell Colquhoun, H. R.
Bramley, Oswell Blakeston, Karen Loewenthal, Patrick Garland, Arthur
Moyse and Meredith Roberts. Ian Norrie contributed theatre reviews. The
first editors are not identified; John Parry took over from issue 3.

\

BL: P.P.5938.bcm

CUL: L727.C.172

NLS: 1950.58

UCL: No. 3-4 (1954)

\

\

**45 The Guild Broadsheets** / edited by John Hoffman. Hull: Guild
Press, No. 1 (1956)-[no. 9?, 1958?]

\

Related imprint: The Guild Press, imprint of the Poetry Guild, which
also published the Guild Poets series of poetry pamphlets and *We
Offer*.

\

Abs: Each featured a single poet, namely Frederic Vanson, J. Phoenice,
Pamela Page, Alexander Clarke, Ruth Partington, Frances Porteous,
Patricia Howe, Eric Ratcliffe and Penelope Anne Bennett.

\

CUL: 1-8. (L727.C.226)

UCL: 8 (1957)

\

\

**Gwent Poetry Society Anthology** ***See*** **Anthology of the Gwent
Poetry Society** C6

\

\

**46 Icarus** / edited by Cecil Jenkins, Rosalind Brett-Jones and Peter
Devlin; and others. Dublin: Trinity College, Vol. 1 no. 1 (1950)- .
ISSN: 0019-1027

\

Note: Volume numbers are generally independent of the issue number, e.g
vol. 7 no. 22 was the twenty-second issue of the whole run. The
exceptions are Vol. 44 no. 1 (Feb 1994) and vol. 44 no. 2 (Apr. 1994).
March 1959 is wrongly numbered no. 28 (it should be no. 27) and there
are two issues numbered 29.

Index: Stephen H. Goode, *Index to Commonwealth Little Magazines* (New
York: Johnson Reprint, 1966), BL: HURO11.3409171

Profiled in: Tom Clyde, *Irish Literary Magazines: an outline and
descriptive bibliography* (Dublin: Irish Academic Press, 2003), BL:
2725.g.3414

Anthology: No. 98 was *The Worst of Icarus: an anthology of poor quality
student verse* [1993]

\

Abs: Poetry, articles, and short fiction. Contributors came to include
Donald Davie, Thomas Kinsella, Eavan Boland, Michael Longley, Derek
Mahon, Brendan Kennelly and, in the mid-sixties, Iain Sinclair and
William Burroughs. Pauline G. Bewick provided the cover and other
illustrations for no. 15 (Feb 1955) and 16 (May 1956). No. 46 (1965) has
a long editorial by Sinclair which includes the suggestion that *Icarus*
should be like the “good bad taste” of the cartoon strip *Peanuts.*

\

BL: 1-23, 25-58, 91-98; vol. 44 no. 1, no. 2; 102-105. (P.P.4970.eca)

CUL: 1-57, 76 [1980], 1984- . (L727.B.337)

TCD: IN.C.TRI

UCL

\

\

**47 Ideogram: poetry, prose, criticism** / edited by David Kosubei,
Alfred Manley, Charles Orwell and Ben Sands. London: [The Editors], No.
1 [1952]

\

BL: P.P.5126.gcb

\

\

**48 Impact** / edited by Francis Cabuche. Dulwich, London: Dulwich
Branch of the British Poetry Association, Vol. 1 no. 1 [195?]-?

\

Abs: Mostly poems, with some reviews. Produced from a typewritten
stencil. Contributors included Wrey Gardiner, Hardiman Scott, Hugh
Creighton Hill. The poetry of Marie Stopes is reviewed enthusiastically
by Madeleine D'Avy in Vol. 1 no. 2. Presumably the British Poetry
Association was a rival to the Poetry Society. The BPA also had their
own, main, magazine simply called *Poetry*.

\

BL: Vol. 1 no. 2 only. (ZA.9.a.2214)

\

\

**49 Interlude**. Loughton, Essex, 1958-?

\

Abs: Listed in *Trace* as covering all the arts (including poetry?), but
especially theatre. No holdings known.

\

\

**50 Kavanagh's Weekly: a journal of literature and politics** / edited
by Patrick Kavanagh. Dublin: Peter Kavanagh, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Apr. 12
1952)-no. 13 (July 5 1952)

\

Profiled in: Tom Clyde, *Irish Literary Magazines: an outline and
descriptive bibliography* (Dublin: Irish Academic Press, 2003), BL:
2725.g.3414; Gerry Smyth, *Decolonisation and Criticism: the
construction of Irish literature* (London: Pluto Press, 1998),
pp.103-113, BL: YC.2001.a.4091

Reprint: The Curragh, Co. Kildare: Goldsmith Press, 1981; BL: L.45/3099

\

Abs: Next to no actual poetry in this provocative journal with a wide
cultural agenda, but still very much part of the poetry world: edited by
the poet Patrick Kavanagh and published by his brother. The last issue
reveals the pseudonyms used for the previous issues’ articles.

BL: P.P.6193.kdd

CUL: Q700.A.7

TCD: Gall.BB.11b.40

\

\

**51 Key Poets**. London: Fore Publications, No. 1-10 (1950). Then, New
Series, London: Fore, No. 1 (1951)

\

Note: Variant title: *Key Poet*

Related Imprint: Fore Publications published a number of books on
various topics from the 1930s to the 1950s, often related to central and
eastern Europe.

\

Abs: A pamphlet series, each pamphlet containing a collection by a
single author. These were often poets who had been better-known before
the War. In the first series the poets were: Edith Sitwell, George
Barker, Randall Swingler, Jonathan Denwood, Stanley Snaith, Dorian
Cooke, Jack Lindsay, Maurice Carpenter, Jack Beeching and Norman
Cameron. The new series seems to have contained only one publication, a
translation of a Vítĕzslav Nezval poem by Jack Lindsay and Stephen
Jolly.

\

BL: W.P.8498. New Series: W.P.8498.a.

\

**52 Lines** / edited by Alan Riddell. Edinburgh: Poetry Edinburgh, [No.
1, 1952]-no. 3 (Summer 1953). Then as *Lines Review*, Edinburgh:
Macdonald, no. 4 (Jan. 1954)-144 (March 1998). ISSN 0459-4541

\

Index: *Scottish Poetry Index* *Vol. 3* (Edinburgh: Scottish Poetry
Library, 1995; all issues indexed) BL: ZC.9.b.6227; Robin Fulton, *Lines
Review Index* (Loanhead: Macdonald, 1978), nos. 1-60

Profiled in: Sullivan 1914-1984

Related Imprint: M. Macdonald published two poetry collections in its
first full year, 1953, Alan Riddell’s *Beneath the Summer*, BL:
11659.cc.23, and Sidney Goodsir Smith’s *Cokkils*, BL: 11660.bb.8. Many
more would be published during *Lines Review*’s life.

Reprint: Nos.1-25, New York: Johnson Reprint Corp, 1972; nos. 1-6,
Millwood, New York: Kraus Reprint, [undated]

\

Abs: Poems and reviews and articles concerning poetry. Scottish-based,
but not limited to Scottish poetry. The first issue of what would
become, as *Lines Review*, one of the longest running poetry magazines
in Scotland, was published during the 1952 Edinburgh Festival in honour
of Hugh MacDiarmid who celebrated his 60^th^ birthday that year. No. 3
was a Sidney Goodsir Smith number. That issue was published by M. [ie
Callum] Macdonald, who would publish all future issues of *Lines Review*
as well. After Riddell’s departure in 1954, the editors were Sydney
Goodsir Smith, Tom Scott, J. K. Annand, Albert Mackie, Alan Riddell
again (from 1962-1967), then Robin Fulton (1967-1977), Robert Calder,
William Montgomerie (1977-1982), Trevor Royle and Tessa Ransford. Robin
Fulton’s editorship was especially noteworthy for its numbers given over
to contemporary poetry in Europe.

\

BL: 3-144. (P.P.5126.bcf)

CUL: 3-144. (L727.C.190)

NLS: NH.290

UCL: Johnson Reprint

\

\

**Lines Review** *see* **Lines** C52

\

\

**53 Listen** / edited by George Hartley. Hessle, East Yorkshire:
[Listen] [Vol. 1 no. 1 Spring 1954]-vol. 4 no. 1 (Autumn 1962)

\

Related Work: Jerry Bradley, *The Movement: British poets of the 1950s*
(New York: Twayne, 1993), BL: YC.1996.a.818; Blake Morrison, *The
Movement: English poetry and fiction of the 1950s* (Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 1980), BL: X.989/88175; Mohan Ramanan, *The Movement:
a study of contemporary poetic tradition* (Delhi: B.R. PublishingCorp,
1989), BL: YA.1990.a.15972; Charu Sheel Singh, *Auguries of Evocation:
British poetry during and after the Movement* (New Delhi, Associated
Publishing House, 1987), BL: YA.1988.a.16569

\

Abs: A little magazine associated with the Movement poets, but not in
fact confined to them. A significant number of American writers among
the contributors. Poets include: Philip Larkin, John Wain, Kingsley
Amis, Anthony Thwaite, Elizabeth Jennings, Roy Fuller, W. S. Merwin,
Thom Gunn, Adrienne Cecile Rich, James Merrill, James Wright, Martin
Seymour Smith, Edwin Morgan, Donald Davie, Charles Madge, Tom Scott,
George MacBeth, W. H. Auden, G. S. Fraser, Thomas Kinsella, R. S.
Thomas, Alan Brownjohn, Stevie Smith, J. E. M. Lucie-Smith, Geoffrey
Hill, Richard Wilbur, Ezra Pound, W. D. Snodgrass and Norman MacCaig. As
critics: Charles Tomlinson, Frank Kermode, Philip Hobsbaum and Malcolm
Bradbury (e.g. a review article on the Movement, in Vol. 2 no. 2).

\

BL: P.P.5126.gci

CUL: Vol. 1-3 (L727.C.187)

NLS: P.210

UCL

\

\

**54 The London Broadsheet**. London: [The London Broadsheet], then
Kenneth Coutts-Smith, No. 1 [Dec. 1954]-5 (June 1955). ISSN: 0456-4898

\

Abs: From no. 1: “The broadsheet tradition is a subversive one, and this
broadsheet exists to subvert you. We wish to reintroduce a healthy anger
at bad art and bad government. Poetry is retreating to provincial
universities, criticism has grown mealy-mouthed, honest bawdy is
censored, and every real political opposition is watched by the police.
We solicit serious comment on any of the above tendencies; and also
satire, cartoons and ballads on contemporary events (which may be
doggerel, but must have bite); as well as creative writing and line
drawings.” Edited anonymously. Contributors included Ithel Colquhoun
(poems, and an article on Austin Osman Spare), Oswell Blakeston, Thomas
Blackburn, Paul Potts, Bernard Kops, Raymond Tong, Antony Borrow (e.g.
an article on Thomas Blackburn), Michael Ivens, Robert Greacen
(translating an anonymous Albanian poem), Ewart Milne, and others. Sold
by subscription and also at the Harlequin Coffee House in Fulham.

\

BL: P.P.7001.ap. Also, No.1-3 on microfilm Mic.32035 (no.1-3)

UCL: No. 3-5

\

\

**55 The London Magazine: a monthly review of literature** / edited by
John Lehmann, then Alan Ross. London: Chatto and Windus, Vol. 1 no. 1
(Feb. 1954)-vol. 8 no. 3. (Mar. 1961). New series. Vol. 1 no. 1 (April
1961)- . ISSN 0024-6085

\

Note: Imprint varies. From 1971 published by London Magazine itself.

\

Index: Each volume had its own index

Profiled in: Görtschacher 1; Sullivan 1914-1984

Related Imprint: From c.1966 to the 1980s London Magazine Editions
published poetry, fiction and other texts, notably collections by Roy
Fuller, Brian Jones, and Tony Harrison and anthologies such as Robin
Fulton (ed. and trans.) *An Italian Quartet* (1966), BL: X.908/9492;

Maureen Ahern and David Tipton (eds. and trans.), *Peru: the new poetry*
(1970), BL: X.989/6564 and Alan Riddell (ed.), *Typewriter art* (1975),
BL: X.421/10167

Anthology: Hugo Williams (ed.), *London Magazine poems, 1961-66*,
(London: Alan Ross, 1966), BL: X.908/9488; Alan Ross (ed.), *London
Magazine 1961-85*, (London: Chatto & Windus, 1986), BL: YC.1986.a.1646;
Alan Ross (ed.), *Signals: thirty new stories to celebrate thirty years
of the London Magazine*, (London: Constable, 1991), BL: Nov.1991/2129

Reprint: Nendeln, Liechtenstein: Kraus Reprint, [undated]

\

Abs: A commercial-looking magazine (in fact subsidised by private and
public funds) which began as a general literary review, publishing and
reviewing poetry as well as other literature, but which under Alan
Ross's editorship broadened its remit to include the arts in general.
Alan Ross edited *London Magazine* from the beginning of the new series,
in 1961, until his death in 2001. An offshoot was the non-poetry series,
*London Magazine Stories* (BL: X.0909/321) which ran from 1964 to 1979.

\

BL: P.P.5939.cbg

CUL: L900.C.324

NLS: Vol. 1 no. 1-vol. 21 no. 12. Lacking vol. 21 no. 11. (NF.1603.SER)
Vol. 22 no. 1.- . Lacking various issues. (HJ3.588. SER)

UCL: Vol.1-20. (Rare Arts Pers) Vol.1 no. 4, vol. 7 no. 1, vol. 16 no.
1, vol. 20 no. 1-2. (Little Magazines Collection)

\

\

**56 Man!: the measure of all things: an Anglo-American anarchist
publication**. London: S. E. Parker, New series. Vol. 1 no. 1 (May
1955)-no. 6 (Mar/Apr. 1957)

\

Anthology: Marcus Graham (ed.*), Man! An anthology of anarchist ideas,
essays, poetry and commentaries* (London: Cienfuegos Press, [1974]), BL:
X.808/9448. An anthology which relates to the American journal of this
title, but which nevertheless had an oblique relationship with the
British periodical.

\

Abs: A general cultural and political review that published occasional
poetry and reviews of poetry. Poems by Robinson Jeffers and Eric
Ratcliffe and others. Edited anonymously. Its American predecessor, of
which it was not officially a continuation, ran from 1933 to 1940.

\

BL: P.P.3554.eny

**57 Merlin: a collection of contemporary writing** / edited by
Alexander Trocchi. Limerick, Me., then Paris: Alice Jane Lougee, vol. 1
no. 1 (1952)-vol. 2 no. 4 (Spring/Summer 1955). ISSN 0543-5277

\

Reprint: Nendeln, Liechtenstein: Kraus Reprint, 1973

\

Abs: Robert Creeley was on the Committee for vol. 2 no. 4. The journal
published Beckett, Ionesco (the first printing in any language), Sartre,
Genet, Neruda, Miller, Trocchi himself and others. It was apparently in
order to fund the magazine that, among a number of casual jobs, Trocchi
wrote pornographic books for the Olympia Press.

\

BL: Lacking Vol. 1 no. 1. (P.P.4881.say)

CUL: [1973 Reprint]. (Q700.c.67)

NLS: 6.2067

UCL: Lacking Vol. 2 no. 4

\

**58 Migrant** / edited by Gael Turnbull. Ventura, Ca. and Worcester:
Migrant Press, No. 1 (July 1959)-8 (Sept. 1960). ISSN: 0540-004X

\

Profiled in: *Chapman* 78-79 (1994), BL: P.901/945

Related Imprint: Migrant Press published poetry collections over a
period of thirty years by Robert Creeley, Ian Hamilton Finlay, Edwin
Morgan, Roy Fisher, Hugh Creighton Hill, Omar Pound, Anselm Hollo, Pete
Brown, Matthew Mead, Michael Shayer, Gael Turnbull, Tony Harrison, Adele
David, and others.

\

Abs: Published Roy Fisher, Edwin Morgan, Robert Creeley, Cid Corman,
Charles Olson, Larry Eigner, Ian Hamilton Finlay, Denise Levertov,
Anselm Hollo, W. Price Turner, Robert Duncan, Edward Dorn, Charles
Tomlinson, and others. The influence of or affinity with Turnbull's
friend W. Price Turner, who edited *The Poet* earlier on in the decade,
is felt in the understated design and the transatlantic spread of the
contributors. Michael Shayer was a contributing editor.

\

BL: P.P.4881.sdy.

CUL: L727.c.229

NLS: NJ.704

UCL

\

\

**59 New Broom /** edited by Anne Turner. Glasgow: [New Broom]. No.
1[1953]-3 [1955]

\

Abs: Satirical poetry and editorials, with an anti-establishment
flavour. Contributors included Tom Wright, William Price Turner,
Hyacinthe Hill, Eric Nixon, Hugh Creighton Hill (poem: “A critical note
on the little magazines”), Gael Turnbull, Sydney Tremayne, Christopher
R. Levenson (poem: “The Poetry Society”) and others.

\

BL: P.901/822

\

**60 New Chapter: a quarterly magazine of literature** / edited by
Robert Bruce and Leslie Candappa. London: New Chapter, Vol. 1 no. 1 (May
1957)-no. 3 (Sept. 1958). ISSN: 0467-1945. ISSN: 0467-1945

\

Abs: Short fiction, and articles on fiction, drama, travel and poetry.
Poems by: Edmund Blunden, Elizabeth Jennings, Jon Silkin, Owen Thomas,
Hilary Crusz, Christopher Levenson, Richard Drain, Vernon Scannell, Alan
Brownjohn, John Smith, Eric Ratcliffe, Paris Leary, Geoffrey Holloway,
Gael Tunrbull, Gene Baro, Charles Duranty, P. A. T. O'Donnell. The last
issue had a John Cowper Powys feature, with contributions by Angus
Wilson, Raymond Garlick and others.

\

BL: P.P.5939.bhh.

CUL: L727.C.250

NLS: 1961.28

UCL

\

\

**61 New Departures** / edited by Michael Horovitz and David Sladen.
South Hinksey: [New Departures], No. 1 (1959)- .

\

Note: No. 5 was also Vol. 2 no. 12 of *Resurgence*. No. 6 consists of a
booklet of poems by Frances Horovitz, *The High Tower*

Profiled in: Görtschacher 1; Sullivan 1914-1984

Interview: With Michael Horovitz, Görtschacher 1

Anthology: Michael Horovitz (ed.), *Children of Albion: poetry of the
underground in Britain* (Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1969), BL: X.908/18647;
Michael Horovitz (ed.), *Grandchildren of Albion: an illustrated
anthology of voices and visions of younger poets in Britain* (Stroud:
New Departures, 1992), BL: YK.1993.a.10246; Michael Hulse and Inge Elsa
Laird (eds.) *POP!: the poetry olympics party anthology* (London: New
Departures, 2000), BL: YK.2000.a.12681

\

Abs: Loosely, a successor to *Departure*. An eclectic,
erratically-published magazine with a strong visual presence (photos,
collage, typography). A relatively early publisher of the Beats in
England. Contributors include Alan Brownjohn, Patrick Bowles, Bernard
Kops, John McGrath, Stevie Smith, Gregory Corso, Donald Davie, Allen
Ginsberg, Eugene Ionesco, Jack Kerouac, Jon Silkin, W. H Auden, John
Berryman, Paul Celan, Austin Clarke, Langston Hughes, Pablo Neruda,
Kenneth Patchen, Charles Olson, Ezra Pound, Anne Sexton, Ted Hughes,
Stephen Spender, Samuel Beckett and Frances Horovitz. Sladen was
co-editor only for no. 1, after which Horovitz generally edited alone
(though Roger Franklin co-edited no. 5). *New Departures* is strongly
associated with live events including the “Poetry Olympics” readings
organised by Michael Horovitz.

BL: P.P.4881.sdg.

CUL: L727.B.241

NLS: No. 1 (Summer 1959)-no. 2/3 (1960) (Y.217 PER); no. 7/8, 10/11
(1975) (1975.179 PER); no. 12 (1980)-no. 13 (1981), no. 15 (1983)-no. 16
(1984) (HP4.87.906)

UCL

\

Poetry Library: 1-7/8, 10/11-15, 17/18/19/20/21/22, 25/26

\

\

**62 New Helios** / edited by Peter Jones. London: New Helios, Vol. 1
no. 1 (Oct. 1956)-no. 3 (1958). ISSN: 0467-2860

\

Abs: With poems by H. R. Bramley, Philip Crick, Geoffrey Hazard, Peter
Jones and others.

\

BL: Vol. 1 no. 1. (Pressmark pending)

UCL

\

\

**63 New Lines** / edited by Robert Conquest. London: Macmillan, [I]
(1956)-II (1963)

\

Related Work: Jerry Bradley, *The Movement: British poets of the 1950s*
(New York: Twayne, 1993), BL: YC.1996.a.818; Blake Morrison, *The
Movement: English poetry and fiction of the 1950s* (Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 1980), BL: X.989/88175; Mohan Ramanan, *The Movement:
a study of contemporary poetic tradition* (Delhi: B.R. PublishingCorp,
1989), BL: YA.1990.a.15972; Charu Sheel Singh, *Auguries of evocation:
British poetry during and after the Movement* (New Delhi, Associated
Publishing House, 1987), BL: YA.1988.a.16569

Reprint: New Lines [I] was reissued by Macmillan in 1967, BL:
X.989/37000

\

Abs: The first of these two anthologies heralded The Movement poets.
Contributors included: Elizabeth Jennings, John Holloway, Philip Larkin,
Thom Gunn, Kingsley Amis, D. J. Enright, Donald Davie, Robert Conquest
and John Wain. The later volume added James Michie, Hilary Corke, John
Fuller, Francis Hope, Jonathan Price, Ted Hughes, Anthony Thwaite, Hugo
Williams, Vernon Scannell, George MacBeth, Thomas Blackburn, Laurence
Lerner, Edwin Brock, Thomas Kinsella and Edward Lucie-Smith.

\

BL: 11606.bb.36

NLS: [I] (NE.116.h.39) II (NG.1599.e.11)

TCD: [1] (150.f.100)

UCL: ENGLISH S 40 CON

\

\

**64 New Poems** / edited by Donald Hall, and others. Eynsham: Fantasy
Press, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Autumn 1952)-vol. 2 no. 2 [1954]. ISSN: 0467-5118

\

Note: Editors vary

Related Imprint: Oscar Mellor’s Fantasy Press issued the Fantasy Poets
series (BL: W.P.B.649), which published collections, each of six pages
only, from many of those featured in *New Poems.* It also featured some,
like Philip Larkin, who were not actually in the magazine. The Press
published more substantial individual collections, and printed the
longstanding *Oxford Poetry* from 1953 to 1960.

Bibliography: John Cotton, *Oscar Mellor: The Fantasy Press: A Memory*
(Hitchin: Dodman Press, 1977), BL: 2725.d.858. Includes a brief memoir
of Oscar Mellor and a four-page checklist of Fantasy Press publications.

\

Abs: Vol. 1 no.-vol. 2 no. 1 were edited by Donald Hall, then at Christ
Church, Oxford University. Jonathan Price and Geoffrey Hill edited the
last issue. Each number was 12 pages in extent and published only
poetry. The contributors were: Robert Bly, Martin Seymour-Smith, Simon
Broadbent, Elizabeth Jennings, Michael Shanks, A. Alvarez, Jenny Joseph,
F. George Steiner, Alistair Elliott, Donald Hall; Adrienne Cecile Rich;
Geoffrey Hill, Anthony Thwaite, Brian Morris, Michell Raper, Don Collis;
Thom Gunn, Alan Brownjohn, John Bayley, David Mitchell; Jonathan Price,
Will Morgan, Margaret Strahan, J. E. M. Lucie-Smith, George MacBeth;
Andrew Anderson, Jeremy Brooks; John Holmstrom, Donald Davie, Richard
Selig and Brian Aldiss. Not to be confused with the *New Poems*
anthology issued by the writers’ organisation P.E.N. in 1952 and
subsequent years (BL: P.P.5126.bcb)

\

BL: P.P.5126.gce

CUL: L727.C.148

NLS: 1955.21

UCL: Vol. 1 no. 1-no. 2

\

\

**65 New Rooster** / edited by Ben Howard. 195-?

\

Abs: Mentioned in *Deuce*. Oddly, appears to have become *Rooster*. No
holdings known of either.

\

\

**66 The New West Country Magazine**. Stratton St. Margaret, Wiltshire.
1957?

\

Abs: Listed in *Trace*. Presumably an attempt to revive the work of
*West Country Magazine* (B144). No holdings known.

\

\

**67 Nightwatchman** / edited by I. R. Orton. Leicester: I. R. Orton,
No. 1 (Winter 1950/51)-6 [1953]

\

Abs: Poems, with poetry notices and short articles. Typewritten.
Contributors included: Danny Abse, James Kirkup, Nissim Ezekiel, John
Heath-Stubbs, Anne Tomlinson, Bernard Kops, Paul Potts, Jane Lunt, Jon
Silkin, W. Price Turner, Antony Borrow and others. Iris Orton published
several collections of her own poetry, including *The Dreamer and the
Sheaves* (Oxford University Press, 1955) and *A Man Singing* (Scorpion
Press, 1962).

\

BL: P.P.5126.bbo

CUL: No. 2/3-6. (L999.B.1.55)

UCL

\

\

**68 Nimbus** / edited by Tristram Hull and others. London: [Nimbus],
[Vol. 1] no. 1 (Dec. 1951)-vol. 4 no. 2 (Feb. 1958). ISSN: 0549-4931

\

Profiled in: Sullivan 1914-1984

Related Imprint: The Westminster Press published a poetry collection by
Ivo Jarosy, *The Ascent* (1951), BL: 11657.l.36

Abs: The first issue had a rather poorly-composed cover design credited
to Terence Conran. *Nimbus* was at first a modest magazine, publishing
poetry, fiction and essays, with poetry mainly from the British Isles,
e.g. Ruth Bulman, R. F. C. Hull, Frances Bellerby, John Heath-Stubbs,
George Barker, Vernon Watkins, Patrick Galvin and Vernon Scannell. The
range increased with the June/Aug 1953 issue and the magazine went on to
feature contributors as various as C. J. Jung (R. F. C. Hull being his
translator), Alexander Trocchi, D. J. Enright, James Kirkup, Herbert
Read, Bertolt Brecht, Christopher Logue, Conrad Aiken, Jean Cocteau, W.
S. Graham, Paul Eluard, MacDiarmid, Patrick Kavanagh, Geoffrey Hill, Roy
Campbell, Stevie Smith, Richard Wilbur and, in the final issue, Auden,
George Mackay Brown, Danny Abse and William Empson. Some of its reviews
took exception to the poetry of the Movement. Ivo Jarosy joined Tristam
Hull as co-editor from vol. 2 no. 1 (June/Aug. 1953), from when it was
published by John Trafford but printed at the Westminster Press. From
Vol. 3 no. 2 Jarosy was no longer co-editor; David Wright took his place
from that issue.

\

BL: Vol. 1 no. 1- vol. 3 no. 3 (Summer 1956). (P.P.5938.bdp)

CUL: Vol. 1 no. 1- vol. 3 no. 3 (Summer 1956). (L727.C.196)

NLS: Vol. 1 no. 1- vol. 3 no. 3 (Summer 1956). (6.774)

UCL: Vol. 1 no. 1-vol. 2 no. 1; vol. 4 no. 2.

\

\

**69 Ninepence** / edited by Patrick Brangwyn, Charles Fox and
Christopher Logue. Bournemouth: [Ninepence], No. 1 (Sept. 1951)-3
(Autumn 1952). ISSN: 0468-2696

 {.western lang="en-GB" style="font-style: normal"}

Abs: 'To the editors the character of this circular is one of resistance – resistance to liars and fools who whine that poetry is dead, yet whose bony elbows guard the bread and butter. They consider the muses creatures of similar appetite and fail to discriminate between belch and song. May we tangle with their guts, cloud their urine and generally irritate their solemn toilet.' - from the editorial of the first issue. There were poems, an article by Charles Fox on poetry and theatre, and reviews. Contributors included Logue, Charles Causley, Robert Duncan and Alexander Trocchi. {.western lang="en-GB"}
==========================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================

\

BL: PP.5126.faa {.western lang="en-GB" style="font-style: normal"}
===============

CUL: L999.B.1.63

NLS: 6.742

UCL: No. 2-3.

\

\

**70 Nonplus** / edited by Patricia Murphy. Dublin: Nonplus, then Irish
Channels Ltd, No. 1 (Oct. 1959)-4 (Winter 1960)

\

Profiled in: Tom Clyde, *Irish Literary Magazines: an outline and
descriptive bibliography* (Dublin: Irish Academic Press, 2003), BL:
2725.g.3414

\

Abs: A cultural review with professional production values. It
published, for example, prose and poetry by Patrick Kavanagh, essays on
Max Jacob, Albert Camus and Francis Ponge, and reprinted work by Myles
na gCopaleen. Printed, but not published, by the Dolmen Press.

\

BL: P.P.4881.sdu

CUL: L900.D.108

NLS: P.212

TCD: PER 91-483

\

\

**71 Northern Broadsheet** / edited by Dorothy Una Ratcliffe. Edinburgh:
[Northern Broadsheet], No. 1(Summer 1956)-6 (Spring 1960). ISSN:
0468-6896

\

Abs: Poetry only, except for an illustration on the first page of each
issue. Some poems were in dialects of the Northern counties of England,
including Lancashire, Wensleydale, and various regions within Yorkshire.
Similar to *The Microcosm* which Ratcliffe had edited decades earlier.
The magazine seems to have had a connection with the Yorkshire Dialect
Society whose adverts it displays and whose President was the editor.
Poets in the *Broadsheet* included: James Kirkup, Herbert Read, Anthony
Thwaite, Kathleen Stark, Phoebe Hesketh, Wilfrid Gibson and others. A
supplement, a poem by the editor about St John's Cross, Iona, was
published in Autumn 1957.

\

BL: Ac.9941/5

CUL: L727.C.268

NLS: 5.467

UCL

\

\

**72 Oasis** / edited by David Stone and Geoffrey Roughton, and others.
Cambridge: [The Editors], No. 1 [1951]-5 [1952]

\

Abs: Began in the first two issues as reprinting relatively contemporary
poems; the third issue published new work from Cambridge undergraduates;
the fourth issue was a special Yeats number.

\

BL: 1-4. (X.909/10852)

CUL: L999.c.3.607

UCL: 1-2, 5.

\

\

**73 Ore** / edited by Eric Ratcliffe. Teddington, then Stevenage: Ore,
No. 1 [1954]-50 (1995). ISSN: 0030-459X

\

Anthology: Eric Ratcliffe and Wolfgang Görtschacher (eds.) *Veins of
Gold: Ore 1954-1995* (Salzburg, Austria: University of Salzburg, 1997),
(Salzburg studies in English literature: Poetic drama & poetic theory ,
vol. 105), BL: 8071.854 vol 105. Includes an interview with the editor,
articles by Brian Louis Pearce, Penelope Shuttle, Steve Sneyd and
others, a bibliography of poems, essays and reviews published, and
photographs. A large selection of poetry from *Ore* is reprinted in the
anthology.

Interview: With Eric Ratcliffe, Görtschacher 2

Related Imprint: Ore Publications published a poetry series in the 1970s
and 80s, Chariot Poets, whose authors included Helen Shaw, Olive
Bentley, Tony Rowe, Ithell Colquhoun and Frederic Vanson.

\

Abs: Poetry, articles on poetry, and reviews, especially reflecting the
editor’s concern with magic, ancient Britain, and Arthurian legend.
Poets in the first few years included Geoffrey Holloway, Olive McAllan,
Peter Redgrove, Robert Nye, J. Phoenice, W. Price Turner, Raymond Tong,
Hugh Creighton Hill, Edward Storey, and others. Ratcliffe espoused a
‘neo-pagan’ approach to life in general, as witnessed by his editorials
and other prose interventions. Later catch-phrases were “The magazine
which remembers the island of Britain and those who first came to it”
and “For Arthur’s Britain”. No. 9 includes “The Poet in the imaginary
prop-loft” by Derek Stanford, an article engaging arguing against Donald
Davie’s allegedly over-sophisticated approach to understanding poetry.
No. 28 was a special issue devoted to the late nineteenth century poet
W. E. Henley. No. 30 is a Brian Louis Pearce special issue. Frederic
Vanson contributed to many of the later issues which also included work
by Penelope Shuttle, Jay Ramsay, James Kirkup, William Oxley, Margaret
Toms, Jenny Johnson, Ian Caws, Raymond Tong, Geoffrey Holloway, Ithell
Coloquhoun, Rupert M. Loydell, Stephen C. Middleton and Kenneth Steven.
The last issue included work by John Greening, Peter Russell, Angela
Topping, Jon Silkin, Steve Sneyd and others. Publication was suspended
between no. 10 (1959) and no. 11 (1968).

\

BL: No. 1 (1954)-9 (1959). (P.P.5126.fab). No.21, 22, 27-32. P.901/3181

CUL: No. 15 (1971)-? (L727.B.158)

NLS: Lacking: No. 26, 29, 35, 40. (HP.med.355 PER)

UCL: No. 4-50.

\

Poetry Library: 1, 20, 22-24, 28-30, 32-34, 36-50

\

\

**74 Oxford Left** / edited by Stanley Mitchell, then Phyllis Kline,
Gabriel Pearson and Ralph Samuel. Oxford: Oxford University Socialist
Club, [1953?]-[195-]. Then, [New series]. No. [1] (Michaelmas 1965)-9
(1969)

\

Abs: As it suggests, a socialist student magazine. Poetry and articles
on poetry were published, however, and contributors included: Geoffrey
Richman, Anthony Thwaite, Jim Fitton, Gabriel Pearson, A. N. Kaul and
Adrian Mitchell. The latter also contributed an article on “Poetry and
Society” and Gabriel Pearson contributed a response to it in the same
issue (Michaelmas 1954). The New Series was published under the auspices
of the renamed Oxford University Socialist Group and was much more of a
politics-focused magazine.

\

BL: Michaelmas [ie Autumn] 1953, Hilary [ie Spring] 1954, Michaelmas
1954. (ZA.9.a.6661). New Series. 1-4. (P.701/48)

\

London School of Economics: New Series, 1-6. (Main collection, HX3);
also, New Series, 2-9. (Reserve Periodicals, LB3610)

\

\

**75 Oxford Opinion: art, literature, music, poems, philosophy,
politics, travel** / edited by Ian Downing; and others. Oxford: [Oxford
Opinion], [vol. 1. No. 1, 1955-no. 46, 1961]. New Series, No. 1 [Autumn
1965]-4 [Summer 1966]

\

Note: Volume numbering ceases after vol. 4 no. 11 (Mar. 1960), the next
issue being no. 38 (30^th^ Apr. 1960); no. 45 was a joint issue with
*Granta*

\

BL: [Vol. 1] no. 4 (25 Oct. 1956)-vol. 3 no. 6 (22 Nov. 1958)-no. 45.
New Series, No. 1-4. (P.P.6118.ke)

CUL: Vol. 4 no. 4- vol. 4 no. 11; no. 39-[46]. (L985.B.93)

NLS: Vol. 4 no. 4-no. 44. (6.1186)

\

**76 Pawn** / edited by John Blackwood; Charles Harrison; Christopher
Dougherty, Clive Wilmer; Leslie Bell and Robert Wells; Kevin Stratford
and Charles Nicholl. Cambridge: [Pawn, c/o King's College], No. 1
(1956)-39 (1972)

\

Note: Several issues are unnumbered

\

Abs: Poems, often by those who went on to be better known in other
fields, e.g. Angus Calder, Jenni Daiches, Alexis Lykiard, Howard
Brenton, Clive Wilmer, Terry Eagleton, Clive James, Richard Burns, Simon
Jervis and others.

\

BL: 17 (Nov. 1960), March 1961, 21 (Mar. 1962), Michaelmas 1962, Easter
1963, 28 (May 1965), 33 (Lent 1967), 36 (Summer 1969). (ZA.9.a.4737)

CUL: CAM.C.72.28

UCL

\

\

**77 PEN in Exile** / edited by T. Zavalani. London: P.E.N. Centre for
Writers in Exile, No. 1 (1954?)-27/28 (October 1960)

\

Note: Related to *Arena* (1961-1967): produced by the same organisation
and probably *Arena*’s predecessor

\

Anthology: P. Tabori (ed.) *The Pen in Exile* (London: International
P.E.N. Club Centre for Writers in Exile, 1954), BL: 12299.ee.33; and P.
Tabori (ed.) *The Pen in Exile: a second anthology* (International
P.E.N. Club Centre for Writers in Exile, 1956), BL: 12300.cc.17

\

BL: 25-27/28. (PP.7615.ir)

\

\

**78 Perspectives** / edited by James Laughlin, then Lionel Trilling,
then Jacques Barzan, then Malcolm Cowley, then R. P. Blackmur, etc.
London: Hamish Hamilton, No. 1 (Autumn 1952)-16 (Summer 1956). ISSN:
0553-7495

\

Index: Index to whole series published with final number

Related Imprint: Intercultural Publications published a number of
Perspective anthologies on different countries around the world, e.g.
Carleton Sprague Smith (ed.), *Perspective of Brazil* [1956], BL:
X.802/3856.(5). They also published *The Atlantic Monthly*.

\

Abs: Made possible by a grant from the Ford Foundation to promote
American culture, this British edition of the American general arts
journal was lavish for a literary publication: elegant understated
typography and design, black and white and colour illustration, and many
of the distinguished U.S. critics and writers of the day contributed,
including William Faulkner, William Carlos Williams, Marianne Moore and
many others. Each was edited by a single editor but Laughlin acted as
managing publisher-editor within the U.S. firm of Intercultural
Publications. Literary rather than little.

\

BL: P.P.6392.eci.

CUL: L900.C.313

NLS: NJ.710 PER

UCL: No. 1-2

\

\

**79 Phoenix**. Edinburgh: George Watson's College Literary Club, Summer
1950-[1974?]

\

BL: P.P.6203.bin.

\

\

**80 Phoenix: a poetry magazine** / edited by Harry Chambers; and
others. **** Liverpool: [Phoenix], No. 1 (1959)-11 (Winter 1964). New
series: No.1 (Mar. 1967)-13 (Spring 1975). ISSN: 0031-8345

\

Abs: Poems and reviews, with a focus on the quieter, formally
conservative poets, e.g. Seamus Heaney and Philip Larkin. In the new
series the first issue was devoted to the new Ulster poets, such as
Heaney and Michael Longley, no. 5 was devoted to American poetry and no.
11/12 was a special Philip Larkin issue.

\

BL: No. 8 (Autumn 1962)-11 (Winter 1964); New Series, 1-13. (P.901/1493)

NLS: New Series, No. 1 (6.1937). New Series no. 3-13. (NH.589 PER)

UCL: No. 6 (1961)-11 (Winter 1964). New Series, 1-13

\

Poetry Library: New Series: 1, 3-13

\

\

**81 Platform** / edited by Frederick Woods. London: [Platform], No. 1
[Spring 1953]-4 [Autumn 1955]

\

Related Imprint: Platform Poets was a series that published at least one
(untitled) collection, by E. L. Mayo, c.1954, BL: X.950/37423. Not to be
confused with the Platform Poets series of the 1970s.

\

Abs: Poems included those by Maureen Duffy, W. Price Turner, Bernard
Bergonzi (who was also associate editor), Christopher Goodwin, E. L.
Mayo, G. S. Fraser, Elizabeth Jennings, Robert Garioch, Paul Valéry
(trans. Charles Higham), William Carlos Williams, Sydney Goodsir Smith,
Peter Russell, Kingsley Amis, Philip Larkin, Alan Brownjohn and Norman
MacCaig, as well as reprinted poems by E. E. Cummings and Wallace
Stevens. Nicholas Moore contributes an article in no. 3, “John Peale
Bishop and the classic virtues”.

\

BL: P.P.5126.bna.

CUL: L727.C.181

NLS: 1950.58

UCL: No. 3-4

\

\

**82 Poems in Pamphlet** / edited by Erica Marx. Aldington, Kent: Hand &
Flower Press, No.1-12 (1951); no.1-12 (1952)

\

Anthology: Barry Newport (ed.) *A Hand and Flower anthology: poems and
fables commemorating Erica Marx and the Hand and Flower Press* (No place
or publisher given, 1980), BL: YA.1991.a.18158

\

Related Imprint: The Hand & Flower Press published fiction and drama as
well as poetry, the latter including collections by Muriel Spark,
Michael Hamburger and Joseph Chiari, and *Beowulf* (trans. Edwin Morgan)

\

Abs: Each monthly issue published the work of usually one poet only,
building up to a yearly anthology. In the first year the poets included:
Gwyneth Anderson, Robert Waller, Charles Tomlinson, Peter Russell, John
Alden, Charles Higham, Arthur Constance, Rob Lyle, Charles Causley, John
O'Hare, Thomas Blackburn and Robert Manfred. In the second year the
poets included: Frederick Pratt Green, Arthur Joseph Bull, Michael
Hamburger, Juanita Peirse, Frederic Vanson, R. L. Cook, Alan Barnsley,
Ursula Wood, Richard Heron Ward and Jocelyn Brooke.

\

BL: P.P.5126.bbt.

CUL: L727.D.60

\

\

**83 The Poet** / [edited by W. Price Turner]. Glasgow: Venture, No. 1
[1952]-15 (1956)

\

Anthology: [W. Price Turner, ed.?] *A Venture of Poets*, Glasgow:
Venture, [1952] (BL: 11606.aaa.17); W. Price Turner (ed.), *Eleven
Scottish Poets: a contemporary selection* (Glasgow: The Poet, 1954)

Related Imprint: The Poet also published the Poet Cameo Series, which
published collections by Eric Nixon (*Statements of Love*, [1956], BL:
W.P.3658), Gael Turnbull (*A Libation*), and Hyacinthe Hill
(*Promethea*).

\

Abs: Poets included: Derek Stanford, Tom Wright, Sydney Tremayne, E. E.
Cummings (reprinted from another magazine, but with a new appreciation
of his poetry by Price Turner), Margaret Crosland, John Atkins, Kathleen
Raine, Anne Ridler, Hugh Creighton Hill, W. S. Merwin, John Heath
Stubbs, Kenneth Patchen, Bernard Bergonzi, Geoffrey Holloway, Norman
Nicholson, Iain Crichton Smith, Karen Loewenthal, Cid Corman, Gordon
Wharton (issue 8 was entirely given over to his work), Francis Scarfe,
Carol Hogben, J. F. Hendry, Robinson Jeffers, Tom Buchan, Norman
MacCaig, Merrill Moore (issue 10 was entirely given over to Moore’s
work), Edwin Morgan, Donald Davie, Eric Ratcliffe, Charles Edward Eaton,
Gael Turnbull, J. Phoenice, Roy Fisher, Robert Creeley, Laurie Lee,
Donald Hall, William Carlos Williams and Burns Singer. Reviews were
issued as a separate supplement to the magazine.

\

BL: P.P.5126.bbz

CUL: L727.D.81

UCL: No. 3, 7

\

Poetry Library: 8

\

\

**84 Poetry** / edited by Hardiman Scott. Birmingham: The British Poetry
Association, [Vol. 1 no. 1 (1950)?-1951?]

\

Abs: The BPA appears to have been a rival to the Poetry Society, and
*Poetry* was its house magazine. James Brockway, in Görtschacher 2,
suggests that Howard Sergeant helped found it in reaction to Muriel
Spark's departure from *The Poetry Review*. Brockway, then living in
Holland, contributed Dutch poems in translation. Location varied:
advertisements from different sources suggest London, Liverpool,
Petersfield and Birmingham.

\

CUL: Vol. 2 no. 8 (1951), Vol. 3 no. 9 (1951), no. 11 (1951).
(L999.C.3.297)

\

\

**85 Poetry & Audience**. Leeds: University of Leeds Student Union,
[Vol. 1 no. 15 (30 April 1954)- . ISSN: 0032-2040

\

Anthology: A. R. Mortimer and James Simmons (eds.), *Out on the edge*
(Leeds: [University of Leeds Department of English Literature], 1958),
BL: YA.1995.a.22540; A. R. Mortimer [et al.] (eds.) *Poetry and
Audience, 1953-1960: an anthology*. [Leeds: University of Leeds Student
Union, 1961], BL: 11663.i.3.; *Leeds Undergraduate Poetry from the First
Ten Years of Poetry & Audience*. (Leeds: [University of Leeds Student
Union], 1963), BL: X.908/4381; Tom Wharton and Wayne Brown (eds.), *21
years of Poetry & Audience* (Breakish: Aquila, 1976), BL: X.908/40673

Related Imprint: The Poetry & Audience Pamphlet imprint published at
least one collection, by Brian Oxley, *Poems*, [1967?], BL:
YA.2003.b.3781

\

Abs: In the early years, usually edited for an academic year by a single
editor. In the first eight years these included James Simmons, A. R.
Mortimer, T. W. Harrison (i.e. Tony Harrison), and Desmond Graham. From
Vol. 33 no. 1 [1991?] published by the Leeds University Poetry Society.

BL: Lacking [Vol. 1.] no. 1-14; vol. 1 no. 20; vol. 2. no. 10, 18,
20-22; vol. 3. no. 1, 5, 10-12, 14-16, 18, 24, 25; vol. 4. no. 2, 4, 5,
9, 10, 14, 17; vol. 5. no. 1-5, 7; vol. 6 no. 23; vol. 7 no. 5, vol. 11
no. 7, vol 11 nos. 13-17, vol 13 no. 14, no. 19, vol. 14 nos. 6-9, no.
14, and all to vol. 29 no. 1 except vol. 15 no. 2. (P.P.5126.nag)

CUL: Vol. 5(21), 1958- .(L727.B.35)

NLS: Lacking: Vol. 11 no. 1, 11, 17; vol. 13 no. 19; vol. 14 no. 3; all
between vol. 14 no. 5-vol. 16 no. 1; vol. 16 no. 8; vol. 17 no. 13; vol.
19 no. 2; vol. 19 no. 7; vol. 20 no. 4-vol. 21 no. 1; vol. 21 no. 4-vol.
28 no. 1; all between vol. 29 no. 1-vol. 31 no. 1; vol. 33 1991.
(HJ8.1204 PER)

UCL: [Vol. 1] no. 7- . Incomplete.

\

Poetry Library: Vol. 17 no. 2; vol. 20 no. 9; vol. 21 no. 1-vol. 22 no.
5; vol. 23 no. 2-4; vol. 27 no. 3; vol. 28 no. 2-3; vol. 30 no. 1; vol.
31 no. 1; vol. 32 no. 1-[2?]; vol. 35 no. 1- .

\

\

**86 Poetry Broadsheets** / Cambridge: Poetry Broadsheets, No. 1 (Feb.
1951)-?

\

Index: No. 6 (July 1951) contains an index for the preceding issues

\

BL: No. 2 (Mar. 1951), 6 (Jul. 1951)-10 (Nov. 1951). (ZD.9.b.54)

\

\

**87 Poetry London-New York** / edited by Tambimuttu. New York, Vol. 1
no. 1 (Mar./Apr. 1956)-vol. 1 no. 4 (Summer 1960).

\

Note: Continues: *Poetry (London)*. Continued by: *Poetry London / Apple
Magazine*.

\

Abs: Tambimuttu’s New York continuation of his earlier London title,
included here for its association. Two decades later it would be
resurrected in another form, even briefer than this one.

\

BL: P.P.7615.ma

UCL: Vol. 1 no. 1-no. 3

\

\

**88 Poetry Manchester** / edited by Doreen Taylor, Brian Wright, Peter
Robins and Harry Webster. Leigh: Poetry Manchester, [No. 1] (Autumn
1951)-5 [1953]. ISSN: 0477-0951

\

Note: Editors change over the course of the run

Anthology: Doreen Taylor and Brian Wright (eds.), *Poetry Manchester*
(Leigh: Poetry Manchester, 1951), BL: 11606.bb.16.

\

Abs: Poetry by Robin Skelton, Norman Nicholson, James Kirkup, Eric
Nixon, Kathleen Raine, Peter Russell, Gordon Wharton, Jon Silkin, John
Heath-Stubbs, and others. Peter Russell contributes an essay on Edith
Sitwell in the first issue.

\

BL: [1]-[2], 4-5. (P.P.5126.bca)

CUL: [1]-[2], 5. (L999.C.3.112)

NLS: 6.739

UCL: [ 2], 4-5

\

\

**89 Poetry Midlands**. Derby: [1950?]

\

Abs: Listed in *Trace*. No holdings known.

\

\

**90 Poetry of the Soho Festival**. [London]: Soho Association, [1],
1955

\

Note: Variant title: *Poetry Broadsheet Soho Fair*

\

BL: YA.2003.a.37328

\

\

**91 Poetry Periodical** / edited by Irene Coates. Cambridge: Irene
Coates, no. 1 (Autumn 1952)-3 (Summer 1953)

\

Abs: "*Poetry Periodical* has come into being because of the need for a
magazine which will publish more forthright, satirical, or experimental
poetry than is in vogue at the present day." Poems by Ted Waring, John
Holmstrom, K. W. Gransden, Peter Daw, Alan Fowles, Frederick Woods,
Todja Tartschoff (trans. Leopold Sirombo), Gordon Wharton, Peter Craig
Raymond, James Boyer May, David Stacton, Lucien Stryk, Marion Deschamps,
Norman Helm, Derek Maynard, Robert Ivy, Evathia Mowle, Enes Ramos, Keith
M. Sagar, Victor Musgrave, Anthony Bailey, Glynne Hughes, Rosamund
Stanhope, Alec Craig, Rodney Banister, Seymour Gresser and the editor.

\

BL: P.P.5126.bcc.

CUL: Periodicals Depts

\

\

**92 The Poetry Year Book** / edited by G. B. Spencer and P. B. Godfrey
Bartram. London: Citizen, 1958

\

Abs: Intended as an annual to encourage a greater readership for unknown
poets but appears to have failed after first volume. Two poems are
tributes to Ezra Pound and Sydney Keyes respectively.

\

BL: P.P.5126.nae.

\

\

**93 Promenade** / edited by Ben Howard. Cheltenham, 195-?

\

Abs: Most significant for no. 65, which is entirely by W. S. Graham and
includes his own drawings and prose work. It is bound with no. 66 (which
is mainly about W. S. Graham).

\

BL: 65-66. (Pressmark Pending)

NLS: 65-66. (6.1579)

\

\

**94 Prospect** / edited by Elaine Feinstein, then Tony Ward, then
Jeremy Prynne. Cambridge: [Prospect], [No. 1] (Summer 1959)-[6] [1964]

\

Abs: A magazine that could be seen as an early Cambridge School journal.
Friendly towards American experimental poetry, publishing e.g. Paul
Blackburn, Charles Olson, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Ed Dorn and Arthur
Freeman, it also published short stories by Harold Pinter, Tony Ward and
Robert Creeley, and poems by Denise Levertov, Charles Tomlinson, Donald
Davie, Desmond McCarthy, Jeremy Prynne and others. Donald Davie also
contributes, e.g. an article on the problems of The Movement, and
Prynne's essay "Resistance and Difficulty" is published here for the
first time.

\

BL: P.P.7616.pz.

CUL: L727.C.271

NLS: No. 5. (DJ.m.442(5) PER)

UCL

\

Poetry Library: [1?]

\

\

**95 Q** / edited by H. A. Barrington and Victor Price; and, later,
others. Belfast: Students’ Representative Council of the Queen’s
University of Belfast, No. 1 (Michaelmas 1950)-[no. 19?, 1960?]

\

Note: Continued as: *Q Review*

Profiled in: Tom Clyde, *Irish Literary Magazines: an outline and
descriptive bibliography* (Dublin: Irish Academic Press, 2003), BL:
2725.g.3414

\

Abs: Trundling cheerfully along with only occasional surprises, eg.
under the editorship of T. Alan Bennett, no. 7 (Michaelmas 1952), at
which point a couple of translations from Prévert appeared (trans. A. W.
Burrowes) and Philip Larkin contributed a book review. Larkin would
later contribute poems and an assessment of Betjeman’s poetry (all in
no. 11, Hilary 1955, edited by Wesley Burrowes), and contributors would
also include John Hewitt. Betjeman, returning Larkin’s compliment,
reviewed *The Less Deceived* in no. 14 (Hilary 1957).

\

BL: No. 1-11 (Hilary 1955). (P.P.6180.cgc)

\

Linen Hall Library, Belfast

\

\

**96 Q Review.** Belfast: [Students’ Representative Council of the
Queen’s University of Belfast, No. 1, 1960?-1961?]

\

Note: Continues: *Q.* Because of the doubt over the start date, and its
continuation of *Q*, this title has been placed in this section rather
than a later one.

\

Profiled in: Tom Clyde, *Irish Literary Magazines: an outline and
descriptive bibliography* (Dublin: Irish Academic Press, 2003), BL:
2725.g.3414

\

Linen Hall Library, Belfast

\

\

**97 Quarto: a quarterly broadsheet of new poetry** / edited by James
Reeves. Dorchester: Friary Press for Quarto, no. 1 (Spring 1951)-8
(Winter 1952). ISSN: 0481-2220

\

Abs: Published solely poetry, including Norman Cameron, Donald Davie,
Martin Seymour-Smith, Robert Graves, F. T. Prince, Lynette Roberts,
Elizabeth Jennings, Charles Madge, Michael Hamburger, D. J. Enright and
Donald Hall.

\

BL: P.P.5126.bbw.

CUL: L999.b.1.24

NLS: P.la.1339 PER

TCD: 147.a.67, Nos.1-8

\

Poetry Library: 1, 3, 5, 7-8

\

\

**98 Quixote** / edited by Jean Rikhoff Hills and others.
Cornwall-on-Hudson, New York State, and Stockton Heath, Cheshire:
Quixote, No. [1] (Spring 1954)-24/25 (Winter/Spring 1960)

\

Abs: Short fiction, a little poetry, and some essays on aspects of
general culture. Despite the two locations, essentially a US magazine
that was just printed for the most part in England. From 1959 published
in the United States only. An account of the magazine's demise,
involving the printer moving from England to Gibraltar, is given in the
last issue. Contributors of poetry included May Swenson, John Lucas,
Charles Bukowski, Jerome Rothenberg, Ronald Tamplin and others.

\

BL: [1]-3, 5-24/5. (P.P.5939.bhf)

CUL: L727.C.157

\

\

**99 Review Fifty: a quarterly synthesis of poetry and prose** / edited
by Edmund Cooper. Botesdale, via Diss, Norfolk, [No. 1] Winter 1950-[no.
3] Summer/Autumn 1951

\

Abs: Short fiction, poems and reviews. Poets included: R. L. Cook,
Friedrich Hölderlin (trans. Vernon Watkins), Gunnar Ekelöf (trans.
Bertil Lange and Terence Heywood), Bernard Bergonzi, Joseph Joel Keith,
Eric Nixon, Lionel Monteith, Iris Birtwistle, Mervyn Levy, Gilbert
Phelps, Howard Sergeant, Marjorie Boulton, Vernon Watkins, J. M. Calder,
Takis Hagipanayotis (trans. Mabel and Terence Heywood), Anthony Garwood,
T. H. Jones, Clarence Alva Powell, Phoebe Hesketh, Kenneth Lawrence
Beaudoin, Antony Borrow, Lucile Coleman, Edmund Cooper, Jack Dalglish,
Charles Duranty, Martin S. Dworkin, D. E. Edgley, Howard Griffin, Ralph
Houston, Henny Kleiner, S. E. Laurila, W. McDermott, John Barron Mays,
Philip Murray, E. H. Ray, Bernard Raymund, Peter Robins, Hardiman Scott,
Raymond Tong and Anne Turner.

\

BL: P.P.5126.gcc.

UCL

\

\

**100 Reynard: the magazine of the Quaker Fellowship of the Arts** /
edited by Katharine M. Wilson, and others. Reading: The Gower Press,
Vol. 1 no. 1 (Sept. 1955)- .

\

Note: Each issue received a running number independent of its volume and
issue number, and later issues were designated only by a date

\

Related Imprint: The Quaker Fellowship of the Arts published occasional
collections, such as the anonymously edited anthology of poems by older
poets, *Vintage Voices* (South Croydon, [1977]), BL: X.909/41963

\

Abs: A Quaker magazine, which publishes poetry, fiction, and arts
articles. Contributors include: Christopher Fry, Laurence Housman,
Laurence Lerner, Katherine Herbert and others.

\

BL: P.P.5939.cbh.

CUL: Nos. 32 (1978)-[34], [44] (1990). (L400.c.566)

NLS: Lacking: 1961, 1962, 1963, 1965, 1966, Winter 1968/69, 1979-1980.
(P.sm.3420 SER)

UCL: Vol. 2 no. 1-vol. 3 no. 2; 1959, 1964-1967, Spring 1968, Winter
1968/69, Autumn 1969, No. 23-30, 32, 1979-1980

\

**Rooster** *See* **New Rooster** C65

\

\

**101 Saint Botolph’s Review** / edited by David Ross. Cambridge, [No.
1], 1956

\

Profiled in: Elaine Feinstein, *Ted Hughes: the life of a poet* (London:
Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 2001), BL: YC.2002.a.11716

\

Abs: A magazine with a significance far beyond its pages. It was named
after the rectory outside college limits where a small number of
undergraduates and others associated with Cambridge University took
lodgings. Several of Hughes’s poems were included in the only issue of
the magazine, and it was at the launch of the *Review* on 26^th^
February 1956 that Hughes first met Sylvia Plath. The other contributors
were Daniel Huws, Daniel Weissbort, George Weissbort, David Ross and
Lucas Myers.

\

CUL: Cam.c.211.40

UCL

\

\

**102 Saltire Review: of arts, letters and life** / edited by Alexander
Scott, and others. Edinburgh: The Saltire Society, Vol. 1 no. 1 (April
1954)-Vol. 6 no. 23 (Winter 1961)

\

Note: Continued by: *New Saltire*. The issue numbering is consecutive,
so that vol. 6 no. 23 is the twenty-third issue of the whole run

Profiled in: Sullivan 1914-1984

\

Abs: A general cultural review, with a strong interest in poetry,
publishing poems and articles about poetry. Many of the Scottish writers
of the day and of later days appear in its pages including Edwin Muir,
Sydney Goodsir Smith, Tom Scott, Burns Singer, Joseph Macleod, R.
Crombie Saunders, Robert Garioch, Alan Riddell, Edwin Morgan, Norman
McCaig, Naomi Mitchison, Alexander Scott, George Bruce, Hugh MacDiarmid,
William Montgomerie, Maurice Lindsay, W. Price Turner, Alexander Reid,
Iain Crichton Smith, Derick Thomson, Sydney Tremayne, Robin Fulton, and
others. Includes signficant literary criticism by Edwin Morgan on
Scottish poetry.

\

BL: Lacking Vol. 2 no. 1- vol. 3 no. 6. Ac.9945.b/2.

CUL: L727.C.160

NLS

\

Poetry Library: 10-11, 13, 16, 18-19, 22

\

\

**103 Samovar: the magazine of the Joint Services School for Linguists**
/ [edited by Michael Frayn, Eric Korn and others] Bodmin, then Crail:
Joint Services School for Linguists, No. 7 (April 1954)-25 [1959]

\

Note: Continues: *Teapot and Samovar*, and takes up its numbering. No.
15 was not published. No. 16 was published in Crail, Scotland

Profiled in: D. M. Thomas’s introduction, *Secret Classrooms: An Untold
History of the Cold War*, by Geoffrey Elliott and Harold Shukman
(London: St Ermin's Press, 2002), BL: YC.2002.a.20997

\

Abs: The Joint Services School was designed to meet the Cold War
challenge by teaching British servicemen Eastern Bloc languages,
especially Russian. Alan Bennett, D. M. Thomas, Michael Frayn, and Eric
Korn went through the School as part of their National Service. It
usually appeared in Cyrillic, although there were also Czech and Polish
poems in at least one issue. D. M. Thomas recalled that it “served up an
eclectic diet of gentle mockery, short stories, anecdotes, reviews and
essays on topics from the learned to the seriously abstruse.” In
Russian, the title is written *Camobap*. No holdings are known of the
predecessor *Teapot and Samovar.*

\

BL: 7, 9-11, 14, 16, 18-25. (ZA.9.a.11851)

\

\

**104 Scorpion** / edited by Ian Hamilton. Darlington: Ian Hamilton,
[No. 1-2, c.1954.]

\

Interview: Dan Jacobson interviews Ian Hamilton in *London Review of
Books*, 24^th^ January 2002.

\

Abs: Edited by Hamilton as an anti-school magazine, the school being
Darlington Grammar School. The first issue had a foreword by John Wain.
Noted in the *London Review of Books* interview. No holdings known.

\

\

**105 S.D.'s Review** / edited by Sean Dorman. [Fowey?]: [Sean Dorman?],
[1959-196?]

\

Note: Continued by: *Writing Published*

\

Abs: The predecessor of a number of magazines, *Writing Published,
Writing*, and *Writers News*, which encouraged co-operation among
writers, self-help, and published short fiction and poems of an
unassuming kind. No holdings known.

\

\

**106 Sky-Line** / edited by Derek Townsend. Tipton: Edition 1
(Feb/April 1955).

\

Abs: Short fiction, a few poems, jokes, plans for an agony column and
children's page. Popular in tone, but seems not to have survived first
issue. Poems by Eric James, Mary Ward, Joyce Dunkley and Clare Withers.

\

BL: P.P.5938.cax

\

\

**St. Botolph’s Review** ***See*** **Saint Botolph’s Review** C101

\

\

**107 Stand** / edited by Jon Silkin, and others. Newcastle upon Tyne,
and other locations: [Stand], [Vol. 1] no. 1 (1952)-vol. 40 no. 2
(Spring 1999). New series. Vol. 1 no. 1 (Mar. 1999)- . ISSN: 0038-9366,
for years 1952-1983. From 1983, ISSN: 0952-648X

\

Note: Absorbed: *3 Arts Quarterly* and *North East Arts Review*. Title
variant: From 1983 entitled *Stand Magazine*

\

Index: Sader (Vol. 1 (1952)-11 (1970) only)

Profiled in: Görtschacher 1, Sullivan 1914-1984

Interview: with Jon Glover, Matthew Welton and John Whale, in *Poetry
News: the Newsletter of the Poetry Society*, Winter 2002/3, p.8

Anthology: Jon Silkin (ed.) *Poetry of the Committed Individual: a Stand
anthology of poetry* (London: Gollancz, 1973), BL: X.989/20509

Reprint: New York: Johnson Reprint, [undated] (Nos. 1-12 only)

\

Abs: Poems, short fiction and reviews. Special issues include: vol. 4
no. 3, The War Poets; vol. 7 no. 2, East European Issue; vol. 22 no. 2,
In Memory of Nadezhda Mandelstam; vol. 23 no. 3, Modern Norwegian
Writing; vol. 23 no. 4, Christina Stead: a celebration; vol. 33 no. 3:
New African Writing. When Jon Silkin died in 1997, *Stand* continued for
two years under the co-editorship of Rodney Pybus and Lorna Tracy before
being relaunched and edited by John Kinsella and Michael Hulse, basing
it at the University of Leeds. Following in turn their departure, Jon
Glover became editor. Others involved editorially have been: Gordon
Wharton, T. Heaton, Jack Kohn, Stanley Chapman; Gene Baro, Ken Smith,
Tony Harrison, Catherine Lamb, Merle Brown, Michael Blackburn, Brendan
Cleary, Evangeline Paterson and others.

\

BL: [Vol. 1] no. 2 (1952)- . (P.P.5938.cau)

CUL: [Vol. 1] no. 3 (1952)- . (L727.C.193)

NLS: HJ4.1328

UCL

\

Poetry Library: [Vol. 1] no. 2-3; [Vol. 2]-vol. 4 no. 1, 3; vol. 5 no.
3; vol. 6 no. 2, 4; vol. 7 no. 1-2, 4; vol. 10 no. 2; vol. 11 no. 1, 3;
vol. 12 no. 1-vol. 35 no. 2; vol. 37 no. 1-vol. 38 no. 4; vol. 39 no.
3-vol. 40 no. 2; New Series: vol. 1 no. 1, 3; vol. 2 no. 1- .

\

\

**108 Suppose Pig Walk**. West Worthing: Fantasma, [No. 1, 1950]

\

Abs: Apparently only one issue published, edited anonymously. An 'open
forum' of pre-election political comment, with a little poetry by Claude
Len O'Shea and J. Halsen. Typewritten format.

\

BL: P.P.5939.bhd

\

\

**The Teapot and Samovar** ***See*** **The Samovar** C103

\

\

**109 Thames** / edited by Arthur Hammond; then Michael Craton; then
Bryan Johnson and Muriel Starkey. London: The University of London
Literary Society, [Vol. 1 no. 1] (1953)-no. 2 (1954); Then, London:
King’s College Literary Society, [no. 3] (1958)

\

Abs: Poems only. Contributors included Frank Lissauer, Maureen Duffy,
the Polish poet Cyprian Norwid (trans. Adam Czerniawski) and Gordon
Wharton. Maureen Duffy was the assistant editor for the second issue.

\

BL: P.P.5126.gch

UCL: Vol. 1 no. 1-no.2

\

\

**110 The Threshold** / edited by Alec Smith. Mytholmroyd, Yorkshire
(printed by Lawrence Warner, Hinckley): Alec Smith, No. 1 [1952].

\

Abs: The apparently sole issue had poems by Kuo Ching Té (trans. John
Brun), R. L. Cook, Charles Duranty, Albert Greenwood, Geoffrey Johnson,
Joseph Joel Keith, John Barron Mays, Eric Nixon, Cecily Pile and Alan
Smith.

\

BL: P.P.5126.bby

\

\

**111 Threshold** / edited by Mary O'Malley; poetry editor: John Hewitt;
and others. Belfast: The Lyric Players, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Feb. 1957)-no. 38
(1987). ISSN: 0040-6562

\

Note: After Vol. 5 no. 1, numeration changes form to no. 18, 19, etc.

Index: Richard. J. Hayes, *Sources for the History of Irish
Civilization: Articles in Irish Periodicals*, (Boston: G. K. Hall,
1970), BL: HUL941.5. Selected contents are listed by EirData
(http://www.pgil-eirdata.org).

Profiled in: Tom Clyde, *Irish Literary Magazines: an outline and
descriptive bibliography* (Dublin: Irish Academic Press, 2003), BL:
2725.g.3414

\

Abs: General literary review, with Ulster focus. John Boyd edited from
1971.

\

BL: Vol. 1 no. 1-4, vol. 2 no. 1-4, vol. 3 no. 1-4, vol. 4 no. 1-2, vol.
5 no.1, no. 18

(1964)-no. 26 (Autumn 1975), no. 28 (Spring 1977)-no.32 (Winter 1982),
no. 34 (Winter 1983/84)-no.36 (Winter 1985/86). (P.P.5196.hb)

CUL: L900.c.349

TCD: Lacking vol. 4 no. 1. (OLS L-2-189-192)

UCL: Vol. 1 no. 2-vol. 5 no. 1; vol. 5 no. 18-no.38

\

**112 Tomorrow** / edited by Ian Hamilton and Susil Pieris. Oxford: The
Editors, No. 1 (June/July 1959)-4 [1960]. ISSN: 0495-8349

\

Interview: Dan Jacobson interviews Ian Hamilton in *London Review of
Books*, 24^th^ January 2002.

\

Abs: Contributors to this poetry review included: Roy Fuller, Michael
Hamburger, Michael Horovitz, Roger McGough, Christopher Middleton, Edwin
Morgan, Ronald Duncan, D. J. Enright, Elizabeth Jennings, A. Alvarez,
John Fuller, Francis Hope, Bernard Kops, Oscar Mellor, Richard Adams,
Tayner Baybars, Thomas Blackburn, Alan Brownjohn, Caryl Churchill (a
poem), Peter J. Dale, Harold Pinter (a short play), J. H. Prynne, Robin
Skelton, and others. Susil Pieris co-edited for the first two issues,
after which Hamilton edited alone.

\

BL: P.P.4881.sr

CUL: 2-3. (L727.C.247)

NLS: 5.6538

UCL: 2-4

\

Poetry Library: 1-3

\

\

**Trace** *see* **Directories and Lists Section**

\

\

**113 The Transatlantic Review** / edited by J. F. McCrindle. London and
New York: Transatlantic Review, No. 1 (Summer 1959)-60 (1977). ISSN:
0041-1078

\

Abs: Drawings, prose, playscripts, and poetry. Eclectic, with work by
Ted Hughes, C. Day Lewis, Robert Graves, Muriel Rukeyser, George Barker,
Eugenio Montale, Austin Clarke, Jeni Couzyn, Stewart Conn, Maureen
Duffy, Ruth Fainlight, Zulkifar Ghose, Giles Gordon, Jeff Nuttall, Lou
Reed, Peter Redgrove, Vernon Scannell, D. M. Thomas, and others. Also
involved editorially were Eugene Walter, Heathcote Williams and B. S.
Johnson. Not to be confused with Ford Madox Ford's journal of 1924.

\

BL: P.P.7617.br.

CUL: P727.C.41

NLS: 2-60. (NJ.670 PER)

UCL

\

Poetry Library: 7-8, 10, 14-20, 22-23, 25-28, 30-35, 39-47, 49-50, 52-57 {.western lang="en-GB" style="font-style: normal"}
========================================================================

\

\

**114 Trio** / edited by John Bingham, George MacBeth and Anthony
Thwaite. Oxford: No. 1 (1952)-7 (1955). ISSN 0493-9883.

\

Reprint: Nendeln, Lichtenstein: Kraus Reprint, 1972

\

Abs: A magazine that published the work of Oxford students. Contributors
included Alan Brownjohn, Thom Gunn, Alistair Elliott, Jonathan Price,
Adrian Mitchell and others.

\

BL: 1, 2, 5 on order 2/05

CUL: L727.D.109

UCL

\

\

**115 Troubadour** / edited by Raymond Buxton; then Buxton and Mavis
Heath-Miller; then Kennedy Williamson. London: The Writers’ Guild, [No.
1, 1950-no. 4, 1955]

\

Abs: Poems only. Contributors included Lionel Monteith, Terence Heywood,
R. L. Cook, Elizabeth Douglas, Kennedy Williamson, Henny Kleiner and
many others.

\

BL: 1-3. (W.P.A.141)

CUL: L727.D.100

UCL

\

\

**116 Tydfil: a Merthyr Tydfil miscellany** / edited by John Fletcher
and Harri Webb. Merthyr Tydfil: Eisteddfod Merthyr Tydfil A'r Cylch, No.
1 (Spring 1959).

\

Abs: A magazine linked to the Merthyr Tydfil Eistedfodd, publishing
winning poems and prose but also offering itself as a "sounding board
for the distinctive thoughts and voices of our community."

\

BL: P.P.4881.sck.

\

\

**117 Umbrella** / edited by W. F. Holland, then T. C. Watson, John F.
West. Coventry: The Umbrella Club, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Oct. 1958)-vol. 2 no. 8
(Summer 1962)

\

Abs: The Umbrella Club was set up as “an independent, non-political,
non-profitmaking organisation for encouraging interest in art, music,
literature, the theatre and kindred subjects. It arranges lectures,
recitals, dramatic performances and many related activities.” The
magazine was a general arts review with occasional poems, e.g. by Owen
Leeming, George MacBeth, Ian [i.e. Yann] Lovelock, Bryan Johnson,
Zulkifar Ghose, Vera Rich, Taner Baybars, Herbert Read, and others;
other contributions included essays by John Hewitt, Philip Larkin,
Zulkifar Ghose and others.

\

BL: P.P.4881.scp.

CUL: L900.C.352

\

**118 Universities’ Poetry** / edited by Bryan A. Reed and R. Bryan
Tyson, and others. Keele: University College of North Staffordshire, 1
(March 1958)-7 (1965)

\

Profiled in: Sullivan 1914-1984

\

Abs: The intention was for this to be a representative sample of student
poetry from the universities across England, Scotland, Northern Ireland
and Wales, but from issue two onwards there was a strong English bias
and arguably an Oxbridge influence, too. Poets included: Malcolm
Bradbury, Meic Stephens, John McGrath, Pat Rogers, Bryan Johnson, Dom
Moraes, John Fuller, Jon Silkin, W. Price Turner, Christopher Levenson,
Angus Calder, Alexis Lykiard, Derek Mahon, T. W. Harrison (i.e. Tony
Harrison), Ken Smith, Peter Dale, Philip Hobsbaum, Ian Hamilton, Iain
Sinclair (apparently his first published poem, 'Cockling' in no. 7),
Angela Carter, Stephen Mulrine, Paul Merchant and others. The other
editors included: Zulkifar A. Ghose, Anthony Smith, John Fuller, Bryan
Johnson, Edward Lambton, Andrew Roberts, Christopher Williams, Dax
MacColl, Anthony Tillinghast, Clive Jordan, and Peter Redgrove.

\

BL: 1-4; 7. (P.P.5126.na)

CUL: 1-3. (L727.C.286)

\

\

**119 Vril** / edited by Michael Hales, then others. Old Windsor,
Berkshire: Beaumont College Poetry Society, No. 1 (July 1956)-4 (July
1959)

\

Abs: Short fiction, articles on just about anything, and poems. The
third issue declared that it was now the journal of the Quodlibetarian
Society.

\

BL: P.P.5126.naa.

\

\

**120 We Offer: prose and verse of the Poetry Guild** / edited by John
Hoffman and Joan Haddock, then John Hoffman with assistant editors.
Chesterfield: The Guild Press, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Autumn 1951)-[1959?]. Then,
New Series, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Jan/Mar. 1963)-no. 3 (July/Sept. 1963). ISSN:
0508-1858\
\

Related Imprint: The Guild Press, imprint of the Poetry Guild, which
also published the Guild Poets series of poetry pamphlets, and *The
Guild Broadsheets*.

\

Abs: Contributors may have had to belong to the Poetry Guild itself,
founded by John Hoffman in 1951, which was a “fellowship of men and
women whose lives and talents are deciated, sensitively, sacramentally
and humbly, to the apprehension and to the expression of the Greater
Spirit.” Contributors included Hugh Creighton Hill, on bridging the gap
between *The Prelude* and *The Pisan Cantos*, and R. L. Cook, Edward
Storey, Geoffrey Holloway, Helga Petersen, Vernon Scannell, John
Hoffman, Roye McCoye, Brian L. Pearce, Phoebe Hesketh and others.

\

BL: Vol. 1 no. 1-no. 3 (Spring 1953); vol. 2 no. 1 (Autumn 1953); vol. 4
no. 2 (Oct/Dec. 1958). New Series, Vol. 1 no. 1-no. 3. (P.P.5126.gca)

CUL: Vol. 1 no. 1-vol. 2 no. 1 (Autumn 1953). (L727.C.175)

UCL: Vol. 1 no. 1; New Series, Vol. 1 no. 3-4.

\

\

**121 Windfall** / [edited by R. L. Cook, Michael Levy, and George Kay].
[Edinburgh]: Poetry Society of the University of Edinburgh, No. 1 (June
1954).

\

Abs: Probably a one-off, this published poems by the editors, Alan
Riddell, Antonia Sansica Scott, Kirsty Ross, Hamish Henderson and
others.

\

BL: YA.1989.a.9557

UCL

\

\

**122 The Window** / edited by John Sankey. London: Villiers
Publications, No. 1 [1950]-9 [1956]

\

Related Imprint: Villiers published a number of single-author
collections, including those by Joseph Chiari, W. Price Turner, and Jean
Overton Fuller.

\

Abs: Poems and short reviews. Jean Andrews was also involved
editorially. Contributors included: I. R. Orton, Margaret Crosland,
Michael Hamburger, Terence Heywood, Nicholas Moore, Arthur Boyars, Eric
Nixon, Harold Pinta (i.e. Harold Pinter), W. Price Turner, Robert
Creeley (reprinted), Charles Olson (reprinted), Kay Johnson, John
Heath-Stubbs, R. L. Cook, Martin Seymour-Smith, Vernon Scannell, Thomas
Blackburn, Alan Brownjohn, A. J. Bull, Patricia Beer, Gael Turnbull, Roy
Fisher and others. No. 7 was a French number, with translations of René
Char, Pierre Reverdy, Robert Desnos, Francis Ponge and others, with
translators including David Gascoyne, Michael Hamburger, Philip Inman
and James Kirkup. No. 8 was guest-edited by Philip Inman.

\

BL: Lacking no. 8. (P.P.5126.bbp)

CUL: No. 2-9. (L727.C.169)

UCL

\

Poetry Library: 7-8

\

\

**123 Writing Today**. London: Villiers, No. 1 (July 1957)-no. 12 (Mar.
1962). ISSN: 0509-3910\
\

Profiled in: Sullivan 1914-1984

\

Abs: A general literary review, edited anonymously. Despite never
extending beyond twelve pages and generally publishing poems that were
reprints from recent collections it reviewed poetry collections (e.g.
Peter Porter's appalled review of Judith Wright's anthology, *New Land,
New Language*) and conducted profile-style interviews with John
Betjeman, Roy Fuller and Herbert Read. The magazine also carried general
articles (such as Vernon Dodds on the effect of the contemporary
paperback revolution on poetry, or Philip Hobsbaum on William Empson).
The writers Bernard Bergonzi, Ann Thwaite and A. C. [i.e. Alan]
Brownjohn were among the review contributors.

\

BL: P.P.5939.bhk

CUL: 11-12. (L999.C.3.187)

UCL

\

\

**124 X: a quarterly review** / edited by David Wright and Patrick
Swift. London: Barrie and Jenkins, Vol. 1 no. 1 (Nov. 1959)-vol. 2 no. 3
(July 1962). ISSN: 0512-6576

\

Index: With Vol. 1 only

Profiled in: Sullivan 1914-1984

Reprint: London: Barrie and Jenkins, 1961 (Vol. 1 only, with index);
Nendeln, Liechtenstein: Kraus Reprint, [undated]

\

Abs: A general arts review, which, apart from its considerable interest
in contemporary art and fiction, specialised in publishing longer
examples of poets' work, often with links back to the early generations
of modernists. *X* included work by Ezra Pound, Hugh MacDiarmid, Stevie
Smith, George Barker, Patrick Kavanagh, Vernon Watkins, David Gascoyne,
Samuel Beckett, C. H. Sisson, and Geoffrey Hill, as well as Robert
Graves, Anthony Cronin, Robert Nye, Boris Pasternak, Martin
Seymour-Smith, Malcolm Lowry, Nathaniel Tarn, Dannie Abse, Philippe
Jaccottet, Dom Moraes, and others.

\

BL: P.P.5977.ae.

CUL: P727.B.11

UCL

\

Poetry Library: Vol. 1 no. 1-vol. 2 no. 1, 3. Note: vol. 1 no. 3 and
vol. 2 no. 3 are reprints

\

**125 Zebra** / edited by Derek Maggs. Bristol: Derek Maggs, [Vol. 1],
no. 1 (Jan. 1954)-vol. 2 no. 3 (Winter 1955/56)

\

Note: The magazine became quarterly with vol. 2

Related Imprint: Derek Maggs published collections in the Zebra Poets
series by W. Price Turner, Derek Parker, Paul Casimir, Richard Easton.

\

Abs: Poetry, short fiction, literary articles. Contributors include:
Denys Val Baker (on the need for Little Magazines), Derek Maggs (on the
first issue of Lehmann's *London Magazine*), Brian Jones, W. Price
Turner, Edward Storey, Roye McCoye, Eric Ratcliffe, Paul Casimir,
Richard Easton, Derek Parker, Tom Wright, Eric Nixon, Hugh Creighton
Hill, Ian Crichton Smith, John Manson, Geoffrey Holloway, Elizabeth
Louch, Robert Nye, Raymond Tong and others.

\

BL: P.P.5939.bhe

CUL: L727.c.154

UCL: Vol. 1 no. 6, 10-12; Vol. 2 no. 1-no. 3

\

Poetry Library: Vol. 1 no. 8-vol. 2 no. 3

\

\

