# Conclusion

> *During my five years a student and one as a worker in Cambridge, I was seriously afflicted by the gentility and ancientness and patriarchy of the place. I guess it was no accident that I ended up writing a chapter of my doctoral thesis on the way that seventeenth-century literary coteries preserved the authority of patriarchal poets through agonistic self-definition and fantasies of all-male reproduction. I didn't see the resemblance at the time* ---Andrea Brady.^[Brady, pp. 244--45.]

> *Be influenced by as many great artists as you can, but have the decency either to acknowledge the debt outright, or to try to conceal it* ---Ezra Pound.^[Pound, 'A Few Don'ts by an Imagiste', *Poetry* (March 1913), 200--06 (p. 202).]

Discussions of Prynne's influences are frequently divided along lines of will, choice or intention. On the one hand, he is presented---to some extent correctly---as a sort of polymath, evincing a deep knowledge both of the literary matters that consitute his immediate field of professional expertise and of a surprisingly disparate range of other subjects, including the technical and the scientific. This is a level of influence which might be described as deliberate, and whose already considerable scope seems to expand with every new reading of Prynne's work. When poetic influence in the more conventional, involuntary sense is discussed, however, Prynne appears as the product of a highly restricted field: a list including Ezra Pound, Charles Olson, Ed Dorn and perhaps two or three more canonical poets such as Wordsworth represents the limit of his conventionally acknowledged poetic inheritance. This thesis has made the implicit case for a new category of more or less involuntary influences situated chronologically in the period 1955--75 and geographically in Britain. These influences differ from one another not only in content, but also structurally, and can be summarised as follows. The first is the literary and literary-critical infrastructure represented by the poetry of the Movement and the criticism of F.R. Leavis, as well as their respective and mutual offshoots, considered in Chapter 1. Absorbed pedagogically and institutionally through the relatively homogeneous environments of the 1950s public school and Cambridge college, the traces of these influences accordingly emerge in the most pedagogical and institutional aspects of Prynne's life and work: the early lecture text on Victorian poetry, for example, or his much later notes for English students at Caius. The broadest of the three fields of influence examined in this thesis, it is also the most conventional, both in its bid for cultural hegemony and in its mode of operation. The second is the British side of the avant-garde little magazine scene towards which Prynne turned in the early 1960s, as described in Chapter 2. While apparently voluntary, this turn loses some of its force when the paucity of alternative options for publication and distribution is considered, Prynne having by this point decisively rejected the mainstream channels offered by a figure like Donald Davie. Unlike the form of influence described in the previous chapter, in which specific critical attitudes or tenets are either adopted or negated, this *milieu* makes its influence felt structurally, as the material context in which Prynne's legible thought takes place. Accordingly, its effect is more like a negative imprint: its trace appears at the very moment that Prynne attempts to reach beyond it, most obviously in his letter to Peter Riley of 15 September 1967 and in the prose piece 'A Note on Metal'. The third and final field of influence explored in this thesis is more diffuse, being represented by the fiction of Wyndham Lewis, Edward Upward and Douglas Oliver, discussed alongside a number of other points of reference---notably the scientific work of Francis Crick and Joseph Needham---in Chapter 3. In this case, the mode of operation is a combination of the previous two: Prynne does not merely adopt elements of these writers' work in his own prose, nor does he simply write against or around them. Rather, Prynne's works and those of the authors already mentioned are symptoms of a broader nexus of conscious and unconscious concerns which comes into focus when they are read together. This nexus is comprised primarily of anxieties about national identity, sexual maturity and reproduction.

The conjunction of these anxieties or concerns and their applicability to a number of other areas of Prynne's work was discussed at the end of Chapter 3, but the composite concept that they form was not given a name. By way of conclusion, this thesis will test out one such name: fatherhood. From the implantation and nurturing of a literary sensibility in the mind of a child to the creation of the autonomous, resistant poem, and even to the 'seeding' of Earth itself, the structure of male reproduction---initial contact followed by withdrawal, tempered in some cases by periodic re-engagement---seems to sit behind much of what matters most deeply to the Prynne that emerges in the foregoing pages. Ironically, this conclusion has been reached through a mode of analysis that has striven precisely to avoid any simply 'patrilineal' model of poetic descent, particularly the Pound--Olson--Prynne structure presented in works such as Anthony Mellors's *Late Modernist Poetics*. As far as this thesis is concerned, Prynne's aesthetic, intellectual and ethical stance is the product of an almost infinitely diverse (though differentially weighted) pool of influences. Yet the stance itself undeniably emphasises processes with a structural similarity to patrilineal descent. Is this a straightforward return of the repressed, either at the level of the present work or at that of its subject? A more accurate assessment would emphasise the inextricability---even the mutually constitutive nature---of different types and processes of influence. It was claimed in the introduction to this thesis that Pound would 'haunt every one of the following chapters'. What, then, is the structure of this 'haunting', and what does it say about that which it affects? 

Like Prynne, Pound is a poet concerned at a deep level with problems of reproduction: one of the crucial charges against 'usura' in Canto XLV, arguably the centre-piece of the long poem that represents Pound's lifework, is that it 'slayeth the child in the womb'.^[Pound, 'XLV', in *The Cantos of Ezra Pound* (New York: New Directions, 1996), 229--30 (p. 230).] Very much unlike Prynne, Pound is scrupulous and clear in his acknowledgement of influences. The most famous example of such acknowledgement is the early poem 'A Pact', a short piece in which Pound explicitly positions himself in filial relationship to Walt Whitman: 'I come to you as a grown child | Who has had a pig-headed father; | I am old enough now to make friends.' Pound presents his task as one of refinement: 'It was you that broke the new wood, | Now is a time for carving.'^[First appearing in *Poetry* (April 1913), pp. 11--12, the poem was accompanied on its second page by 'In a Station of the Metro', a piece whose 'wet, black bough' constitutes a direct development of the 'new wood' that 'A Pact' attributes to Whitman.] Prynne's *oeuvre* contains no such direct statement of influence. Yet, as was pointed out at the beginning of this thesis, the intellectual and contextual correspondences between Pound and Prynne are numerous, and far more compelling than any equivalent similarities with, say, Olson or Dorn. In particular, the blistering scorn of Prynne's private and semi-private tirades against poetic stupidity---matched only by the intellectual, social and even financial generosity of his attempts to support and promote those writers who have met his approval---is a characteristic which cannot but be linked to the author of a text like 'How to Read'. If Pound is to be considered a poetic 'father' to Prynne, it is in precisely the sense identified above: a relationship characterised by withdrawal and absence, but which can with effort be read backwards. The apparent conflict between the disparate influences identified in this thesis and grand theories of patrilineal poetic descent might therefore be dispelled by seeing Pound and his career as a sort of over-arching formal influence within which more local influences (Davie, Leavis, Cambridge, etc.) emerge as content.^[Pound is perhaps even akin to the symbolic father described by Jacques Lacan, whose 'true function \[...\] is fundamentally to unite (and not to set in opposition) a desire and the Law' (Jacques Lacan, *Écrits: A Selection*, trans. by Alan Sheridan \[London: Tavistock Publicatons, 1977\], p. 321).] The apparent genealogical absolutism of this perspective is tempered if Pound is understood as one formal structure or 'concept' among many; thus, a thesis which took Olson rather than Pound as its implicit concept may have come up with a quite different set of emphases and influences (or *vice versa*), even where these influences have only a formal or structural rather than a direct relation to Olson himself. It is important to acknowledge such underlying concepts, even and especially when they only emerge into view at the end of a process of argumentation which they have helped to structure. Through reflection on the structuring concept as a crystallisation of the material that produces it (and that it produces), that material can be viewed from a bird's-eye perspective not possible in the analysis itself.

In the present case, the fact that a particularly patrilineal, Poundian air emerges from a consideration of Prynne's early career has the potential to shed further light on the periodisation of his work. Would the selection of a period other than 1955--75 for contextual analysis---say, the period from the publication of *Poems* in 1982 to Prynne's retirement from academic life in 2005---have thrown up a different concept? Furthermore, what do the qualitative aspects of the concept that has emerged say about that which they structure? The model of poetic inheritance set out above is, for one thing, explicitly anti-feminist: descent is based structurally on the male side of the reproductive process, with almost no regard for the female. To take an obvious example, in Prynne's discussion of Shelley and Malthus in relation to contemporary reproductive policy, women are viewed as mechanical functions in a bio-economic system regulated primarily by male legislators. While a charitable interpretation might claim that it is precisely this system which Prynne is arguing *against*, it is nevertheless the case that the argument takes place within a material intellectual context---*The English Intelligencer*---which  is only marginally less male-dominated than the 44th Parliament itself.^[Of the 66 recipients listed in the *Intelligencer*'s last and longest circulation list (*Certain Prose*, pp. 173--75), five are women, a rate of less than eight per cent. The equivalent rate for the House of Commons after the 1966 election was approximately four per cent ('Women MPs & parliamentary candidates since 1945', *UK Political Info*, \<http://www.ukpolitical.info/FemaleMPs.htm\> \[accessed 2 February 2016\]). In any case, few of the women recipients of the *Intelligencer* participated actively in its discussions.] Prynne's concerns are also heteronormative in the extreme. If to be a poet is, implicitly, to be a man, it is also to be a man whose sexual orientation allows him to reproduce in a conventional fashion. To raise these issues is not simply to nitpick from the high horse of a more 'enlightened' cultural-historical position. Without in any sense discounting the power of prevailing cultural mores, and certainly without condemning the entirety of Prynne's poetic and intellectual project, it is nevertheless fair to say that andro- and heteronormativity are integral to that project---at least in the 1950s, '60s and '70s---rather than unfortunate abberations to be explained away.